Dr Jameson: Hi.
Dr Jameson: Hello.
Dr Jameson: Can you hear me.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Hello.
Dr Jameson: Hi.
Dr Jameson: Can you hear me.
Dr Jameson: Hi, I'm Dr. Jamison
Curtisha’s iPhone: Nice, nice.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Nice to meet you too.
Dr Jameson: Oh, this is covering
Dr Jameson: The ground here. Um, it's funny. The lighting can be so funny if you're if you're kind of backlit a little bit so it's hard for me to see this. And I was just like turning towards your window.
Curtisha’s iPhone: While because my phone.
Dr Jameson: That's a little bit better, I guess, is there a window in your in your room.
Dr Jameson: No. No. Okay. Well, I guess, or light. I don't know it's late on
Dr Jameson: No. Are you able to turn it on. So I can just see you a little bit better. It's really dark
Dr Jameson: Ah, there you are.
Hi.
Dr Jameson: All right. Um, so you you figured out the zoom
Dr Jameson: Mechanism here it's a little confusing at first, I think.
Well, yeah.
Curtisha’s iPhone: I figured it out yesterday when he, when he
Dr Jameson: Gets it gets easier as you get used to it. Um, so today we're just going to kind of go through your medical history, if there is any and talk about well opiates and opioids and Spock's on and see if it seems like it's a good
Dr Jameson: Solution for you.
Dr Jameson: And if so, then get you started.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so if you wouldn't mind starting from the basics. If you wouldn't mind confirming your name and birthday.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Kesha have just sent four or 582
Dr Jameson: And you're in California.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yes. Okay.
And
Dr Jameson: You're comfortable with this video.
Dr Jameson: Concept as far as
Dr Jameson: Gifts and consent for treatment. This way. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So have you taken Suboxone before, some people are like, transferring in from another clinic or is it going to be it. Would it be
Curtisha’s iPhone: No, I never knew before.
Okay, okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so we'll come back to that in a minute. It just helps them, you know, like whether you're already familiar with it or not. And we'll come back, um, let me just ask you some basic medical stuff like, Are you allergic to any medications.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yeah, just well but testing.
Dr Jameson: What happened when you took that
Curtisha’s iPhone: It makes me throw up makes multiple swell.
Dr Jameson: Oh, vomiting and throat swelling. Okay.
Dr Jameson: All right. Anything else
Curtisha’s iPhone: No. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And then are you prescribed any medications currently
Curtisha’s iPhone: No, not right now.
Dr Jameson: Anything for birth control.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yeah Devo montepulciano
Dr Jameson: People always
Dr Jameson: I always specifically asked that because so many people like just don't think of their birth control pill or whatever, as a medicine.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Do you do that every three months.
Then, okay.
Dr Jameson: All right, I put it in one place. Oh, whoops. Okay, and then D. Let's see. Do you have you ever had any operations.
I'm
Dr Jameson: Not ever. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And anytime. You've been in the hospital.
Curtisha’s iPhone: No, I haven't been hospital. Okay. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So no real medical conditions or illnesses in the past. It sounds
Curtisha’s iPhone: Like, no.
Dr Jameson: You're pretty so I always say, so it's good to be boring at the doctor.
Dr Jameson: Right.
Curtisha’s iPhone: I hate the background.
Dr Jameson: Well,
Dr Jameson: I know
Dr Jameson: But it's good to not have a really long complicated story of all the things that have been wrong with you, you know,
Curtisha’s iPhone: Right, it's good.
Dr Jameson: Okay, and then
Dr Jameson: Does anybody in your family have any issues with alcohol or substance abuse like brothers, sisters, parents,
No.
Dr Jameson: Good.
Dr Jameson: Do you smoke cigarettes.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yes.
How much these days.
Curtisha’s iPhone: By like about Teen, teen a day.
Dr Jameson: Have you been cutting back or
Curtisha’s iPhone: Trying to get
Dr Jameson: Yeah, it's I know it's hard, but it's good to just keep little bit by little bit sometimes
Dr Jameson: Honestly, um, how about any alcohol, either now or in the past.
Curtisha’s iPhone: And now I can drink down join
Curtisha’s iPhone: Be
Dr Jameson: Like it was a problem before it makes you sick.
Curtisha’s iPhone: I just can't drink.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Drink a night for me. I'll never like drink it. Okay, so
Curtisha’s iPhone: Doesn't make you sick. Yeah, yeah.
Dr Jameson: And then are you, who do you live with.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Us, they will, my friends.
Dr Jameson: Like different ones for different times or
Curtisha’s iPhone: It's, yeah. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Couch surfing, as they say.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Any kids.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yes, one
Dr Jameson: How old
Dr Jameson: Ah,
Dr Jameson: Boy or girl.
Girl.
Dr Jameson: If she nearby or
Curtisha’s iPhone: No. Yes. She happened to live all about go to school, one of many
Ice
Dr Jameson: Machine in high school or college
Curtisha’s iPhone: High School. Okay, so she's a high school senior
Dr Jameson: Year.
Dr Jameson: And are you working or
What are you doing, no.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Nothing.
Dr Jameson: Did you work in the past.
No.
Dr Jameson: Are you a disability.
Curtisha’s iPhone: No, nothing. Okay, how much
Dr Jameson: Did you finish.
Curtisha’s iPhone: High School.
Dr Jameson: That's good to have that diploma.
And why
Dr Jameson: Okay, and then
Dr Jameson: In a relationship.
Curtisha’s iPhone: No, no, no. Thankful
Dr Jameson: All right.
Dr Jameson: How tall are you,
Curtisha’s iPhone: Bye for
Dr Jameson: You know how much you weigh about these days.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Like about 165 yeah
Dr Jameson: 651 round 1650 My gosh.
Dr Jameson: Fire from it.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so one second.
Dr Jameson: I had
Dr Jameson: I had made plans with a patient yesterday that to meet me at this time.
Dr Jameson: Before they and then I didn't tell people fast enough and they made your appointments and now there's somebody else waiting for me. I just loving the staff now so they can reschedule them.
Dr Jameson: Sorry.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so tell me about your
Dr Jameson: Your opioid journey like what, how did, how did that all start coming
Curtisha’s iPhone: Just like being with friends so
Curtisha’s iPhone: How
Dr Jameson: Were you in high school or
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yeah. Okay, so just
Dr Jameson: Partying basically
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: And so it started that. Well, what have you been using most recently.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Just like Michaels and Salma Uh huh.
Dr Jameson: And you, how do you take them.
Curtisha’s iPhone: By mouth.
Dr Jameson: You don't crush anything or Tony
Dr Jameson: No, no, no, anything
Dr Jameson: Did you ever inject anything
No.
Dr Jameson: And how much are you taking these days.
Curtisha’s iPhone: A lot
Dr Jameson: Do you know how many milligrams, they are and how many a day on average.
Curtisha’s iPhone: They party like team.
Curtisha’s iPhone: And probably like about
Curtisha’s iPhone: 1213
Curtisha’s iPhone: Okay.
Dr Jameson: So somewhere like 125 Meg's per day.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Have you been in any treatment plant programs in the past.
No.
Dr Jameson: And
Dr Jameson: What has what has made you decide to try this.
Curtisha’s iPhone: I'll just, I'll just want to get off.
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Is it. How's it. How is it
Dr Jameson: I mean, like, what about it has become a problem for you. I guess it's expensive there that right
Yes.
Curtisha’s iPhone: I need to save my money.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: A lot of times people say, but you know goes from taking them to make you feel good to just trying to not feel bad and
Dr Jameson: That is that
Curtisha’s iPhone: Is that kind of where you're at. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay. Do you have other people in your life who are addicts or in recovery or what's your support system like
Curtisha’s iPhone: Oh really have
Dr Jameson: Do the people you live with generally are they taking
Curtisha’s iPhone: Something no or not. The. No, not the price it on level one right now. Okay, good.
Dr Jameson: And are you going to be able to stay there while or that's up in a year.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yeah, I don't know how long.
Dr Jameson: So it's uncertain. Okay.
Dr Jameson: I'm okay. Have you ever taken Suboxone before on the from buying on the street.
Curtisha’s iPhone: I bought some on Ustream before. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you've you've tried it.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yeah, and
Dr Jameson: How did it go, I take it, it wasn't bad or you probably wouldn't be
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: It was fine.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Do you did you just do it once or twice or you've taken that like four
Curtisha’s iPhone: days in a row.
Curtisha’s iPhone: On the whole bunch of times.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Do you know how many a day need to not feel bad.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Hi, like four
Dr Jameson: Okay, and they were the eight right
Yes.
Dr Jameson: Have you taken
Dr Jameson: Your I've just just it helps me to know. So it's not it's not a bad or anything, but they you know there's films and there's tablets. Have you tried both of them are just one which
Curtisha’s iPhone: I just tried the one
Dr Jameson: Which one
Curtisha’s iPhone: The one that'd be up under your tongue.
Dr Jameson: Is it like it's a flat film, though it's not
Curtisha’s iPhone: A real
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you're trying to film. Okay, I'm in there, they don't. So there's two options. There's films and their
Dr Jameson: Tablets, and some people have a preference, like when they don't like the taste of or, you know, some people want one. And some people want the other. So that's why I was asking if you have a preference, but it sounds like
Dr Jameson: Let me try that one. Okay, so, so I don't go on and on about stuff you already know. Can you just tell me a little bit, but what you know about Suboxone so i don't i don't bore you with. Do you
Curtisha’s iPhone: Really know too. I don't really know too much. I just was taken.
Dr Jameson: Okay, you just know they helped
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: So well it works the way that it works is that it it's it's
Dr Jameson: It's still an opioid, it's still an opiate medication. It's basically kind of like a designer. They designed this drug specifically to
Dr Jameson: Kind of go into the same receptors in your brain that that opioids go into the narco goes, or any of the other ones.
Dr Jameson: So it goes the same place, but it holds on like super duper, duper tight to the receptor and it stays there for a very like a longer time than most other drugs and while it's in there. Other drugs can't get in there. So you could use
Dr Jameson: Norco and nothing. It was like have nowhere to go in your body, it would just
Dr Jameson: wash out and you wouldn't have any effect from the Norco
Dr Jameson: Um, it also is
Dr Jameson: Special in that there are multiple different types of receptors in your brain that the opiates go to. So, some of them make you sleepy. Some of them make you feel high, some of them.
Dr Jameson: relieve pain. Some of them caused these physical symptoms, right, that
Dr Jameson: That you get
Dr Jameson: Well, they do the opposite of all the physical things you get so they calm you down, they relax your muscles, they
Dr Jameson: Slow down your, your digestive tract.
Dr Jameson: And band you up and all that. So then when you
Dr Jameson: Don't have opioids in your brain. You have all those opposite effects like nachos and diarrhea and sweats and
Curtisha’s iPhone: You can't sleep and
Dr Jameson: You know, the kind of the opposite of what what the drugs to do so.
Dr Jameson: This medicine goes in there and sort of solves that problem. So that's how it keeps you from feeling sick. Is that it, it sort of
Dr Jameson: Takes over those parts of your brain. It goes in the other receptors to but it blocks. Some of those receptor. So, it blocks the one that makes you stop breathing and it blocks the one that gives you a high
Curtisha’s iPhone: So,
Dr Jameson: It sort of it does only the things we wanted to do and not the things that we don't want it, if that makes sense.
Dr Jameson: So that's kind of the basic console. So basically, it satisfies your, your brain, the part that has become more like it needs the opiates to to not feel bad. It'd be
Curtisha’s iPhone: Okay, okay, fills in there. Does that make sense. Yeah, okay.
Um,
Dr Jameson: So I guess. Tell me what symptoms you do get when, how does your. How does your withdrawal look
Curtisha’s iPhone: I just be sweating it don't wanna vomiting sweating. Do you have trouble sleeping, yeah. I will say they cannot sleep.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Okay, ya can't sleep at all. Do you get pain. Yeah.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Ma love my body. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: And then how about people say things like being anxious or restless.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yeah, always
Curtisha’s iPhone: Always be like restless. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Right runny nose, and he yawning.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, random things funny. It's not funny. But this, you know, strange sort of combination of thing.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, yeah. Okay. So you have all of that stuff.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Is
Dr Jameson: How long does it take, like, if you have don't have Norco how long can you go before you start to feel sick.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Polly a day.
Dr Jameson: About 24 hours. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And then how long till you're like vomiting and really really terrible.
Curtisha’s iPhone: 24 hours.
Dr Jameson: By then that's when it's pretty bad. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Have you ever heard of people getting more sick when they take Suboxone
Curtisha’s iPhone: No. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So there's a funny sort of
Dr Jameson: special thing about the medicine, which is that it actually is so strong, to the receptor that it will actually push the whatever heroin or Norco or morphine out
Dr Jameson: And and hold on.
Dr Jameson: So if you have
Dr Jameson: Been using to recently and you have good levels in your system and you're not feeling sick yet taking the Suboxone will actually make you suddenly extremely sick. And then we have to just wait and it's it's miserable. So
Dr Jameson: We call that precipitated withdrawal, which just means that it creates that and then it's anyway so
Dr Jameson: As long as you have, as long as you wait. The worst part about to box on is that you have to wait till you feel sick. Before you can take it.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Because otherwise, it will make you sick.
Dr Jameson: And it sounds like. Luckily, you've never accidentally done that because he will I guess you've always done it, maybe more in desperation and
Dr Jameson: Once you once you started it, then you don't have to be sick anymore, but the very first beginning is is kind of, you gotta wait till you feel pretty bad.
Dr Jameson: So that's really important because if you take it too soon, then you're not going to have a good experience at least at first.
Dr Jameson: So, so when is the last time that you took any normal
Curtisha’s iPhone: This morning, okay.
Dr Jameson: So that means that we had to wait at least until tomorrow, then you're, you know, feeling bad before you take your first dose of the Suboxone which is okay. I just important that you understand that and and really wait because all
Curtisha’s iPhone: We got prescribe them today so I
Dr Jameson: said, Yeah, I'll send the prescription
Dr Jameson: But I just don't want you to start taking it until you really feel
Curtisha’s iPhone: Okay.
Dr Jameson: As bad as you can stand to feel really
Curtisha’s iPhone: Okay, unfortunately.
Dr Jameson: So let me just, I gotta run you through our little
Dr Jameson: Kirk TV show and it's Henderson, right.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And what's is it
Dr Jameson: Is it enter olan olan
olan
Dr Jameson: What's your birthday. Again, four or 580 2040
Dr Jameson: Thank you. Otherwise, I have to flip between two different screens with the pain.
Dr Jameson: And you live in Richmond, right.
Yes.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you've been getting prescriptions and then buying it too is that what's happening.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Is it a primary care who's been doing that or
Curtisha’s iPhone: No, I don't have a primary care right now.
Dr Jameson: Who's Dr. Carter.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Oh yes, the man I go to now.
Dr Jameson: Is he like a in an urgent care a pain clinic or
Curtisha’s iPhone: Now he just had a doctor's office.
Okay.
All right.
Dr Jameson: So looks like he's been given you
Dr Jameson: Every
Dr Jameson: month or so. Right.
Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: All right, so just but you haven't been there. This month right
Dr Jameson: No. No. Okay.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Though
Dr Jameson: Well,
Dr Jameson: I guess if you're going to be taking the Suboxone, then you can't be taking that anymore. Right.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Oh, I can't take my Narcos more more
No.
Dr Jameson: Because remember, I was saying that the Suboxone will block the narco from working.
Curtisha’s iPhone: On oh no I need monarchos because milestone. I've got shot in the foot, my foot be payment.
Dr Jameson: Ah, well, so the Suboxone actually helps with pain, too.
Dr Jameson: So, but the point of taking Suboxone is to stop taking all the other opioids. That's the point of it so
Curtisha’s iPhone: Why just call back
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you don't wanna, you want to
Dr Jameson: Nevermind.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Want to just try for right now, I guess.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I mean, so
Curtisha’s iPhone: We have people who don't work out.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, um, that
Is
Dr Jameson: Sorry, I can't hear.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Your fingers are just text stop taking the Suboxone it if I
Curtisha’s iPhone: Still be taking my Marcos.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. So did you have to have an operation on your foot or
Curtisha’s iPhone: Yeah, cash on the fleet. Okay.
All right.
That's definitely
Dr Jameson: How long ago did that happen.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Like about 10 years ago but
Curtisha’s iPhone: I was pregnant with my daughters.
Dr Jameson: Oh, so that's more like 18 years ago.
Yeah.
Curtisha’s iPhone: But I've never got it fixed because I was pregnant so you can. And I'll start.
Dr Jameson: I see.
Dr Jameson: So wait, so they didn't. Wait, I'm confused. So they didn't operate. When it first happened, but then they operated
Curtisha’s iPhone: Nope, I never got it operated on
Dr Jameson: Oh, you just have the wound. And that's it.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Never operated occur. Geez, while pregnant. That's horrifying.
Dr Jameson: So, I mean, we have to try it to see, but it does seem that a lot of people get pain relief.
Curtisha’s iPhone: So you prescribe those for me. My doctor mobile to give me my Narcos
Dr Jameson: Well, generally the point of taking Suboxone is to not be taking any other pain pills.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Well, I'm
Curtisha’s iPhone: Just I'm gonna just wait to do that.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Because I'm the my paint goes right now.
Dr Jameson: OK.
Curtisha’s iPhone: OK.
Curtisha’s iPhone: That's fine. Okay.
Curtisha’s iPhone: Alrighty.
Dr Jameson: All right. Good luck. Thank you. Bye.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so this was her Tisha Henderson.
Dr Jameson: Who presented for initial
Dr Jameson: Intake history and physical
Dr Jameson: has a history of using
Dr Jameson: Norco initially as
Dr Jameson: Just recreationally
Dr Jameson: But also subsequently for pain control due to a remote
gunshot wound to her foot.
Dr Jameson: Which has left her with
Residual chronic pain.
Dr Jameson: Most recently, she's been taking upwards of 12 Norco 10 milligrams per day, a local physician prescribes enough for one to two a day 45 and then she purchases the remainder herself.
Dr Jameson: She has used Suboxone in the past that she's purchased on the street.
Dr Jameson: But
Dr Jameson: When
Dr Jameson: Informed that she would not get any further benefit from the north goals. If you were taking Suboxone she
Dr Jameson: Wants to
Dr Jameson: Postpone delay her so she's not she's no longer interested, I guess in in Suboxone treatment.
Dr Jameson: past medical history and is detailed in their mental status and physical normal assessment.
Dr Jameson: opioid use disorder.
Dr Jameson: Severe, number one. Number two, chronic pain.
And her foot.
Dr Jameson: Well, any I guess I didn't, I sort of skipped over review systems.
Dr Jameson: So you can detail what she what she reported as far as her withdrawal symptoms go
Dr Jameson: Plan.
Dr Jameson: We discussed the
Dr Jameson: Mechanism of action of the medication, as well as the risk of precipitated withdrawal.
Dr Jameson: I do think she would be a good candidate for Suboxone
Dr Jameson: As she's had a she had clearly has a physical dependence on opioids and had to escalate her dose over over the time
Dr Jameson: However, she I explained that it can also provide pain control.
Dr Jameson: But she is not willing to entertain the idea of stopping Norco completely
Dr Jameson: Due to concern about untreated pain.
Dr Jameson: She therefore
Dr Jameson: We therefore will not proceed with treatment at this time.
Dr Jameson: Total times
Dr Jameson: Well, more than 50% of this visit was spent counseling education about
Dr Jameson: The use of Suboxone and benefits.
Dr Jameson: So I think that will be the end
Dr Jameson: For her
At the moment,
Dr Jameson: Hello.
Dr Jameson: Hi.
Can you hear me.
Dr Jameson: Hi. Hi.
Dr Jameson: It looks cold.
Dr Jameson: No, I'm
Dr Jameson: So we don't have to take long Center here at work, but um it's. Can you hear me, because it seems like the connections not fabulous.
Jacob Cains: Yeah, I can hear you. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So, um, geez. That sounds like a really upsetting.
Dr Jameson: Situation.
Jacob Cains: RIGHT WORD. Yeah, it is weird. We didn't know what happened but someone that she works with she was living with her and they said that she didn't come to work. So then
Jacob Cains: They went to her ex. The guy she was divorcing working with like God look nice car. And there's one software over the car and he took her to the cops to her body.
Jacob Cains: And weird weird situation.
Dr Jameson: somebody you knew well or
Jacob Cains: Yeah, I'm like cousins or like best friends with his the kid that they gotta kill her his brother good friends with his little brother so weird. I knew her to from school and stuff.
Jacob Cains: And she's only
Dr Jameson: Yeah, there's, it's hard to even know
Dr Jameson: never really know somebody well yeah and you meet satin angry and
Dr Jameson: Confused and
Dr Jameson: All sorts of things. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: You got your refill.
Jacob Cains: Yeah, which I demon needs. I forgot that you gave me two weeks.
Dr Jameson: Well,
Dr Jameson: So how are you. I mean, how are you doing with all this
Dr Jameson: Is it. Do you feel like, oh, it's there now. Yeah, okay, well they they'll release it to when when it's time
Dr Jameson: How are you do. I mean, do you would would meeting with someone talk about grief and that kind of stuff. Be helpful. You think
Jacob Cains: Aren't really process that yeah I think
Dr Jameson: Well shock, I bet. Yeah.
Jacob Cains: It's kind of weird to think of
Dr Jameson: It's hard, hard to wrap your head around it, I bet.
Jacob Cains: I know you both on like feel more bad for her family. I do his cuz I don't know.
Dr Jameson: Wow.
Jacob Cains: I wouldn't want to be on his side of the
Jacob Cains: Family very well. So it's weird.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I mean, cuz then they have to have the deal with, you know, being associated with him and having the mixed feelings.
Jacob Cains: Of
You know,
Dr Jameson: He's
Jacob Cains: He's online shit talker and
Dr Jameson: Yeah, and he's somebody that face probably still love it but
Dr Jameson: Now have a whole different set of feel anyway. Either way, I mean,
Dr Jameson: Know, so he's in jail. I take it.
Yeah.
Jacob Cains: Turning try to plead guilty.
Jacob Cains: Detroit and they went, let them for you can't plead guilty in Ohio to violent crime, you have to plead not guilty. So he's already saying he did it took them to the body and yeah like
Jacob Cains: I always wonder and allow the contact his family or her family. So there's no content correct order with anybody.
Wow.
Dr Jameson: I always wonder why people plead not guilty to things that it's like so obvious that they did. Maybe that's why
Jacob Cains: Maybe they're forced to. Yeah, they did. That's crazy like that everywhere. I know in higher. You can't plead guilty to a violent crime will tell felony.
Dr Jameson: I've never heard of that before but seems stupid like if you're admitting you did it.
Jacob Cains: Then
Jacob Cains: Why are we wasting almost admit they did so, yeah.
Dr Jameson: And it's cost a lot of money to put a trial on so
Dr Jameson: Anyway, well,
Keeps things I think keeps FREEZING ME still there.
Jacob Cains: Yeah, yeah, I'm still here.
Dr Jameson: Alright, so, I mean,
Dr Jameson: You're not supposed to know how to process through something this awful so
Dr Jameson: I mean, I just, I would
Dr Jameson: I would strongly encourage that you and I mean your little brother i mean it's it's it's just so super upsetting so
Dr Jameson: If there's grief counselors locally that that are available or I don't know if I don't know how that works. But we certainly obviously have counselors here and I
Dr Jameson: I guess I can't see how it would hurt.
Dr Jameson: No.
Jacob Cains: I mean,
Dr Jameson: I get it. If you're just not even ready to know quite yet to talk about it but i i do think that at some point, it makes sense to
Dr Jameson: Just kind of
Dr Jameson: Have somebody help you process a little bit and figure out where you know kind of what to do.
Dr Jameson: With all the emotions. Yeah, yeah, there's, it's
Dr Jameson: But, you know, of course, times like this, or when people, you know, are more
Dr Jameson: Compelled to try to stop feeling things that are very uncomfortable. Right. So, you know,
Dr Jameson: Obviously raises concern on my end that you know I don't want this to be a trigger.
For any kind of
So,
Jacob Cains: Think about this.
Dr Jameson: Hasn't been even. It doesn't even cross your mind. You don't have dreams about anything like
Jacob Cains: Going back
Dr Jameson: He's okay. If you do. I mean, I most you know it's sort of almost surprising that if you haven't really but
Dr Jameson: Okay, well just really be honest with yourself about if you do start entertaining the thought. That's the first step of a relapse. Okay, so we want it. We want to intervene. Yeah, you know, get the thoughts out of your head before they actually become actions. Right.
Jacob Cains: So, so please
Dr Jameson: Please just really be honest with yourself and and reach out, okay, if anything is starting to feel a little on certain unsteady
Dr Jameson: About, about your recovery, you've done. Great. So I just
Dr Jameson: Big tragedies are commonly
Dr Jameson: You know,
Dr Jameson: An excuse or, you know,
Dr Jameson: Anyway, I want to say like that. But, you know, it starts to become a, oh, well, I don't like this. So let me, let me just use a little while to get me through this and then off you go.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay. So we'll, we'll touch base next week at group.
Dr Jameson: I, well, is it something you want to talk about in group out loud or something you don't want to talk about or like I
Jacob Cains: What do you how do you want me to. It don't matter to me. Okay.
Um,
Dr Jameson: I can tag it happened. Yeah, I can touch base with you privately if that would be more accountable for you. But, okay, well, so we'll see how things are settling, I guess. Are there, like funeral services and stuff happening.
Jacob Cains: Yeah, well, there's the
Jacob Cains: Attorneys and like attorneys all our stuff all the State attorney all this stuff as her body and stuff. So they're still doing whatever they do with it.
Jacob Cains: Okay.
Well, maybe.
Dr Jameson: That's called when they
Jacob Cains: Well, I don't know, I guess, forensic almost sure what's
Jacob Cains: The investigations, but
Dr Jameson: I don't know. I mean, but depending on if it was a violent death, sometimes it's not a situation where you're going to have a display anyway. Like sometimes you need to have
Jacob Cains: A moment you know more about memorial.
Dr Jameson: Service, then
Jacob Cains: Anyway, but, um, so that's
Dr Jameson: Close Catholic. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: That's still up in the air, though. Yes. Yeah. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I mean, I don't know. Yeah. What do you say, so it's just
Jacob Cains: too terrible think
Dr Jameson: You can know so. But just know we're here. And even if it's just to talk to somebody you know the people in the virtual clinic are generally trained in some some counseling type ways so crisis stuff, you know. So if you're
Jacob Cains: Really just
Dr Jameson: Talking somebody just give us a call. We're here.
Dr Jameson: And appreciate. We'll touch base next week and group and see if it seems like maybe time to just just schedule and it doesn't mean you have to me with a counselor 27 times just maybe once or twice.
Jacob Cains: Like
Dr Jameson: Just to kind of
Dr Jameson: Help you process because you're, you're not supposed to know how to do that on your own. So
Dr Jameson: Don't, don't.
Dr Jameson: It's not a sign of weakness. It's a sign of being a human and compassionate person who you know doesn't tolerate tried you know it's just is too awful to think about. So
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: So you're also with medicine.
Dr Jameson: Anything else that we can can help you with this point.
Jacob Cains: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Oh, anything else that we can help you with at this point.
Jacob Cains: Yeah, I just wanted to make sure I let you knew what was going on to you. I think I just get Group two weeks.
Dr Jameson: Sarah. I appreciate it. Yeah, I was little, I was like, Haha That's funny, because I think yeah but um yeah just come next week and then we can we can alternate from here, but if you want or you can come every week for a while. Again, if things are crazy, which they probably will be for a while.
Dr Jameson: But it's up to. I mean, you don't have to buy
Dr Jameson: And I mean, it's hard because they have other people there. I'm sure that are equally distraught and then you have to see them me just, what do you say, you know, it's just, it's just a big
Jacob Cains: Yes, yeah.
Jacob Cains: Then you got you. But every time somebody dies think they knew
Jacob Cains: About it every time somebody dies or conducted woodworker. Oh.
Jacob Cains: Yeah, it drives me nuts.
Dr Jameson: Well, I think, I think that, yeah, I see what you're saying. I hear you. I think
Jacob Cains: Especially when something like this happens.
Dr Jameson: Once some attention house smells, as though. Yeah, well,
Dr Jameson: It could be that are, you know, I think you don't know what's in other people's minds anymore than they know what's in your so you know I think
Dr Jameson: Even someone you only knew casually when you hear that they were killed in such a senseless violent way. I think it's
Dr Jameson: You know, sometimes it's a way for it depends what they're doing. But if it's sometimes it's a way of just paying tribute to that person or
Dr Jameson: Offering condolences to the family, you know, like trying to help and and you know I don't know. So I don't know exactly what's happening or what you're referring to, but
Dr Jameson: You might get try to give people a little bit of benefit of doubt because they're probably feeling
Dr Jameson: in similar ways that that you are, you know, and I don't know that it's all self.
Dr Jameson: There may be some I think probably most people are actually trying to be helpful and
Dr Jameson: You know,
Dr Jameson: Kind of surround
Dr Jameson: The people who have lost somebody so close with, you know, to try to support them, you know,
Dr Jameson: And I'm sure there are one or two people, you know, there's always, there's always a few rotten apples and in a bunch. Right, but I think
Anyway, it's, it's, it's, yeah. There's so many mixed emotions.
Are you there.
Jacob Cains: Yeah, actually, if you don't mind, I have to go swimming
Jacob Cains: I haven't
Dr Jameson: I have another patient
Dr Jameson: No problem. Hang in there, kiddo.
Dr Jameson: Sorry about this whole
Jacob Cains: Thing. All right, bye bye bye. Thank you.
That was Jacob canes, a family friend was
Ordered by
ex husband or a strange have been or something past week.
Understandably, pretty
Upset
Not quite processing yet. It sounds like still kind of in shock stage. Anyway, he missed group because he had just gotten this news that day.
So this was just kind of an individual met check, given the situation.
Dr Jameson: Unfortunately connection was not great but mental status physical normal or UD severe he's got refills available, number one. Number two, grief reaction.
Dr Jameson: I
Dr Jameson: Offer counseling recommended counseling some it might be a little early, but we'll, we'll touch base about that again next week offered our support and any help that we can provide
And just
Dr Jameson: reassured him that it's normal to have all the variety of feelings. He has and he's not supposed to just be able to handle this. Like I said nothing has happened.
Dr Jameson: All right. Okay, so I'm gonna let in my next patient.
Dr Jameson: famous author apparently Charles Dickens.
Dr Jameson: Hi there. Can you hear me.
Dr Jameson: Hello.
Charles Dickens: Hey, how are you
Dr Jameson: I'm fine, thanks. My name is Dr. Jamison, and always takes a minute to pop in I think
Dr Jameson: So you mad at you made your way through the karaoke. I mean, the zoom knees.
Dr Jameson: And I got some lab results for you, just a few hours. A minute ago actually within the past hour so
Dr Jameson: My name is Dr. James and I guess I just started with that nice me
Dr Jameson: If you wouldn't mind confirming your name and birthdate
Charles Dickens: Charles Dickens January 5 1980 okay
Dr Jameson: And you're in California, I believe. Yeah.
Correct.
Dr Jameson: And
Charles Dickens: Are you
Dr Jameson: I Well believe it or not, I am in Florida.
Dr Jameson: Which seems may be crazy. But I have a license in California and a D and I'm in California, and I've been working in a non opioid place but I'm doing telemedicine for like five years, seeing patients and like 15 different states. So,
Dr Jameson: Oh yeah. Okay. I have a license or two at the Toronto.
Dr Jameson: Okay. So today's visit has mostly to do with medical background and history. And I don't know if you're already taking Suboxone or having the pan. Anyway, so we'll talk about that. And the medication and
Dr Jameson: If we need to talk about how it works, how it works, and then see if it seems like a good fit for our program and your situation.
Charles Dickens: I'm good. Okay. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so first some easy questions. Are you allergic to any medicine.
Charles Dickens: A bunch. Okay.
Charles Dickens: That's what led me to opioids.
Charles Dickens: Liturgy to gab repenting. What happened with that.
Charles Dickens: Psychotic features. Oh boy.
Okay.
Charles Dickens: So I used to be a social worker. So I know a lot about this stuff. So
Dr Jameson: Okay, great.
Yeah.
Charles Dickens: So gabapentin mirapex
Charles Dickens: Uh huh.
Charles Dickens: Well, that same thing or
Charles Dickens: Know that
Charles Dickens: It's kind of two things. So one. The bad thing is
Charles Dickens: MY KIDS GOT ME SICK. Sorry. And also try to go cold turkey off Suboxone for like the third time and got sick again. But, um, anyways.
Charles Dickens: mirapex two things. Is it like attacks. My like stomach so I have like violent violent vomiting and violent diarrhea.
Charles Dickens: Okay. And then the other thing that would make me do, is I'm kind of like OCD, but it made me like super OCD like kind of main kind of manic
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Charles Dickens: Like I'd go to sleep for like three hours and then get up and go running for like five miles.
Dr Jameson: Oh, wow.
Charles Dickens: And then go work like 16 hour shifts, and it'd be nothing to me.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Charles Dickens: Lyrica
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Well, I guess you have interrupt, but we'll, we'll you'll tell me what what you're being treated for but what happened with that one.
Charles Dickens: So that's the same thing with the
Charles Dickens: gabapentin know the the near the diarrhea and vomiting. Okay, like it when I mean like I can't leave my house or something. Yeah. Yeah. Well, like
Charles Dickens: Three, four times an hour. Not like throughout the day.
Dr Jameson: And others are set
Charles Dickens: Up Cymbalta
Charles Dickens: Okay. Same with the violent diarrhea and vomiting. Uh huh.
Charles Dickens: We're going to get up to like 12
Dr Jameson: Okay, okay, I'll keep that's fine.
Charles Dickens: Klonopin open
Dr Jameson: To
Charles Dickens: Makes me extremely irritable mood swings and Moody
Uh huh.
Charles Dickens: Let's see.
Charles Dickens: oxy code on
Charles Dickens: Seizures
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Charles Dickens: oxy cotton whichever. The other one is don't
Dr Jameson: Let that it's the same ingredient. It's just a
Dr Jameson: Different um
Charles Dickens: So any of the axes, or any of those I'm allergic to all those different seizures. Uh huh. Any of the oxy code ons oxy cotton all that I get seizures from that.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Charles Dickens: Methadone that's the granddaddy of them all.
Charles Dickens: Now that's psychotic features and suicidal ideations
Uh huh.
Dr Jameson: What about like ibuprofen.
Charles Dickens: Now I don't have a problem. That'd be profound. Um,
Charles Dickens: Let's see. I think I'm allergic to Suboxone right now, but I'm better on it and off of it, but
Dr Jameson: Tell me, what do you mean by that.
Charles Dickens: So I any of the anytime I go off opioids, like my life completely changes like like I get so it's kind of weird, like I
Charles Dickens: And this is the way it's been explained to me but and part of it, how it makes sense to it is
Charles Dickens: So I have restless leg syndrome. Uh huh. But my doctor my neurologist, which I just switched from Kaiser, so that's why I'm with you on. Now he's trying to he's not worth much but
Charles Dickens: He's trying to get me a new neurologist, so I don't have any of their contact information. Anyways,
Charles Dickens: About restless leg syndrome. I'm 40 years old, since I was like 25 I know I started the gabapentin when I was like 29
Charles Dickens: But he said, that is the worst case he's ever seen, because I can't be true with medication because of the allergies.
Dr Jameson: Side effects. Yeah.
Charles Dickens: So what happens with the restless leg syndrome is
Charles Dickens: Leads I've like violent spasms. Like, I can't even control them. Like, I will jump up and down in my bed. I'll kick my wife like
Charles Dickens: Like, not knowing not knowing it. I can't sleep. So then, at least, insomnia, I have sleep apnea. And if you're trimming. I can't keep the masculine, which I don't know why I have sleep apnea, because as much as I exercise now healthy. I am but
Charles Dickens: So I can't keep them the mask on. So then I'll
Charles Dickens: Stay up and then it just leads to an I have two small kids.
Charles Dickens: Sleep deprivation and insomnia and then when I was working. I lost my job because of all this.
Charles Dickens: So anyways, that's why we went to the opioids, because he's like, hey, I can kind of just numb you numb. You're numb your feet where the spasms start and and you can go to sleep so
Dr Jameson: Okay, so that's how you ended up on opioids.
Charles Dickens: Yeah, so also about three years ago I had a ski accident. Like, I don't know what happened. I don't remember. I woke up in the hospital.
Charles Dickens: I was bleeding from my ear. I was wearing a helmet, but my buddies found me and
Charles Dickens: Since that that was April 3 of 2017 since that
Charles Dickens: Head injury.
Charles Dickens: More the allergy started
Charles Dickens: Medication and more of the like mood swings started and the Restless Leg Syndrome. Got a lot worse.
Charles Dickens: My neurologist, like he refused to say anything. So after they diagnosed me with a concussion and then I missed two months of work because I went into post concussive syndrome.
Charles Dickens: Well, my apologies. He refused to admit had anything to do with TBI or or the head injury. He's just like your this is all restless leg syndrome so
Charles Dickens: I think it's probably a combination of both, but
OK.
Dr Jameson: OK. And then, I think, are there more medications still to that you had side effects from I'm
Charles Dickens: Trying to think
Charles Dickens: That's a fair if. How many do you have now.
Dr Jameson: Will not 12 12346 No seven.
Dr Jameson: Well, if you're counting off the content and oxy code on separately. I don't know.
Dr Jameson: How you're counting them.
Charles Dickens: Well, and then Percocet.
Dr Jameson: That's actually caught on to
Charles Dickens: What any of the audio so best all the opioids. I don't know any of the I can't think of any of the other opioids, but any of the opioids. I'm going to, they just make me. Okay, so that's what I was saying sorry. So any they'll be always I'm allergic to, and then
Charles Dickens: What happens is I get addicted to opioids, but I don't really know it because I don't take more than I'm prescribed
Dr Jameson: Mm hmm.
I don't
Dr Jameson: That's, that's what they do. That's what they do. Yeah.
Charles Dickens: But I don't like
Charles Dickens: Go out to like get more methadone or oxy or paragraph. I never do their mind Suboxone so but then
Charles Dickens: My body craves it at one time, but then I'm also going through withdrawals because it wants more. And then I'll take and that's what's going on now with the Suboxone I stopped it. And then, you know,
Dr Jameson: Does it cause some sort of side effect when you're
Dr Jameson: Taking it. I mean, that's what what what we call that as a physical dependence.
Dr Jameson: And you can be physically dependent to medication doesn't necessarily create an addict type behaviors like the buying and buying and taking more than you're saying you're taking. And, you know, that kind of stuff. But being physically dependent is very common. Unfortunately, and so
Dr Jameson: I was actually wondering when you were seeing
Dr Jameson: Some of these with vomiting and diarrhea that can be for some people, a symptom of withdrawal.
Dr Jameson: So I don't know if you get the vomiting, diarrhea, when you're taking those medications or when you stop taking those medications.
Charles Dickens: Stop. No, no. Oh, so so I use. I was a cop, which we'll get to that. I lost my job because I got paranoid at work.
Charles Dickens: Is I've seen people come off heroin and methadone yeah exactly what you've seen people come off of methadone. That's what I went through when we were tapering to go off of it. The like violent diarrhea and the sleeping like all that stuff.
Dr Jameson: You're talking about Suboxone
Charles Dickens: Or methadone.
Dr Jameson: Oh methadone. Okay.
Charles Dickens: Hello. That's why they put me on the Suboxone because the Methadone was just like absolutely destroying my life. Um, but
Charles Dickens: The diarrhea and vomiting on everything except methadone was just regular usage. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So as I stopped it.
Charles Dickens: When I happened with methadone was either tapering down to get off of it, or when I went cold turkey.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so that's a withdrawal. That's not a side that's well I guess it's a side effect in the sense that it may do physically dependent on what
Dr Jameson: You're that's a side effect of the medication, I guess, but it's more the lack of that medication that's causing your body to and it's
Dr Jameson: I mean, eventually, it would stop, but it's really uncomfortable. Obviously, while it's happening. But the psychotic stuff and the suicidality, that was while you were taking it or while you were taping tapering
Charles Dickens: Um, so I was taking risks, I was on and what also with mineralogist an addiction specialist is very confusing to them.
Charles Dickens: But I explained, everyone's different is I'll tell you my dosages, and they're not very high. But I don't, for whatever reason, overall medication. I have an issue with. So I was on 20 milligrams of methadone.
Charles Dickens: And the neurologist is like that's the lowest dosage for restless leg syndrome. Like, you're not gonna have any issues.
Charles Dickens: While I'm at work, and I'm a cop and I'm seeing shit. That ain't there and I'm should be seeing stuff that is there that I'm not AND I'M GETTING PARANOID then I'm hearing like my kids being raped and murdered and my wife.
Charles Dickens: And then the neurologist is like okay well let's take her you down from 20 to 10 but that took like three months and I had to. I had to miss work because that
Charles Dickens: I don't, I don't think you should wish methadone withdrawals on any of your enemies like this was horrible. So then I got down to 10
Charles Dickens: And I liked it. I still didn't like the way it made me feel and maybe paranoid made me. It kind of
Charles Dickens: I couldn't really think straight. So that's why I tried to Claude a pin in the Cymbalta and the lyric and all that. So then I'm like, Hey, what are the other two options. He said bins those. And I'm like, I'm not doing bins. I was man.
Charles Dickens: And as, like, what about what about marijuana like a vague and he's like, well, I don't think the researches and out there yet, but I won't say no. So go ahead. So then around like October I started debate.
Charles Dickens: At night, I would. So we were at 10 milligrams. I was doing 10 milligrams and then the vapor before I would go to bed and for like three weeks. I kind of got I felt fine.
Charles Dickens: He told me to stay off work until January, and it had been like four and a half months. And I'm like, Whatever, man. I feel fine. I was back up to run in like three, four times a week and all this.
Charles Dickens: I get back to work and I just started getting paranoid. Again, I started seeing stuff that wasn't there. I'm telling him I was at Kaiser Kaiser is whatever it's called calmer and whatever you want to say it's like they really only care about like
Charles Dickens: I don't know, it's just out
Charles Dickens: I never really wanted to go on opioids and I really wanted to be in this situation, and that's part of my frustration is that I'm here because I felt that they didn't listen to me. But, and I'm telling him like, Hey, I'm paranoid. I think they're going to get rid of me like
Charles Dickens: Some stuff like that I presented at work was true.
Charles Dickens: You'd have your own opinions, like what you see on the news is not everything how cops are, but I was a cop for six years. I know how stuff works behind closed doors.
Charles Dickens: And there's a certain way that people should be treated well I don't like racial epithets I don't like people talking about fucking my wife. I don't like people saying you've been here for two years. Don't talk to me and all this all this traditional for eternity stuff well
Charles Dickens: I kind of put my foot down. Also like being paranoid, like, hey, these guys are looking at me and all this. I've been gone for four months.
Charles Dickens: All this thinking that people were dedicated we kind of had like a meeting of, like, Hey, what's going on. And I'm like, Well, I don't, I'm not going to work at a place that
Charles Dickens: Its military like I'm not working at a place where if you speak up your mind you're going to be like Trump and fire everyone do all this stuff well
Charles Dickens: The next day they were like, hey, it's time to go like, you can leave or we're going to get rid of you, like, you're not going to sit here and bad mouth people. And I'm like,
Charles Dickens: All right, so then I'll follow up monitor neurologist. It took seven weeks to get an appointment, because he's like whatever will in between that time I
Charles Dickens: The 10 milligrams of methadone just it just wasn't working, it wasn't. I knew it wasn't enough for my body, but I couldn't go off the withdrawals, because it was I just couldn't handle it.
Charles Dickens: So then on my birthday on January 5 my wife and I are out to dinner and stuff. And I just got paranoid again and the suicidal ideations and
Charles Dickens: I feel like the withdrawal symptoms, the restless leg syndrome was as too much to handle. I couldn't sleep hot all the time. And then like freezing cold and then we went to the emergency room and they were trying to put me on hold and all this stuff and was like,
Charles Dickens: Never said, I actually wanted to kill myself. I'm saying, like the pain is so bad and you all don't listen. Like, where's the neurology neurologists, like I've showed them emails like hey
Charles Dickens: I think like I'm having suicidal ideation since the Methadone please help me. And he would email back. I'll see when I see when I can. I'll see when I can get you and get you in. So then I'm telling them at the ER like
Charles Dickens: All you all doctors do is talk about, Hey, tell us what's going on. So we can help you.
Charles Dickens: Well, I'm telling you, like this is like the fifth time I've been in the ER for the same shit. The same reason. And you all release me to go back to my neurologist and I see him like
Charles Dickens: Three times a year, and you'll tweak my medication, a little bit. And it's not enough. So then that's when they brought in that addiction specialist
Charles Dickens: And he's like, All right, well the reason why no doctors want to talk to you is, you're too much of a liability, like you you terminologies you have too many suicidal ideations you have all this. No one wants to deal with you and so
Charles Dickens: That so
Dr Jameson: Did the addiction specialist talk to you about the Suboxone or like how
Charles Dickens: They put me on a soapbox and then
Charles Dickens: That was on my mind.
Dr Jameson: Last month,
Charles Dickens: Yeah. So what happened is, then they brought in the psychiatrists and they were like, hey, we know you're Kaiser is ending. So I switched to anthem, my wife's insurance because I lost my job.
Charles Dickens: And they were like, hey, we know you fill in between. For the last three years with the opioids and all this. We're going to make sure you transition perfectly from Kaiser
Well,
Charles Dickens: Good evening. Yeah, I'm the one that did all this work. Yeah, he, he wouldn't refill my Suboxone I actually have my neurologist, he actually did it before I left.
Charles Dickens: Nobody would fill out disability paperwork. I finally got the neurologist, so I got denied unemployment, because they said I'm disabled and then I got denied disability because they said you're not disabled. So I'm dealing with all that crap I
Dr Jameson: What I've heard is that they always deny that first application for disability.
Charles Dickens: Well. Well, part of it is the part of it. The reason why they denied it. I know is so my doctor put me off the neurologist, put me off for a year, but he backdated it to July when I first was off.
Charles Dickens: As I was off from July to November and the state granted me disability but then they said, go back to your employer because your employers, is it will pay more.
Charles Dickens: My employer denied me because of pre existing condition because it's I've
Charles Dickens: All everything I've been treated for has been going on for 15 years so they denied me
Charles Dickens: So the doctor read neurologist redid the paperwork, all the way back to the last July. So they're like you haven't been disabled. So I had to put everything together that I wasn't paid so I wasn't paid. I wasn't paid for four months. Right.
Charles Dickens: So so anyways.
Dr Jameson: It's very complicated and frustrating.
Charles Dickens: Exactly so.
Charles Dickens: Then when he wouldn't feel my Suboxone. I'm like, Well, fuck it. I'm just gonna go off of it.
Dr Jameson: Now, well that's
Charles Dickens: I'm glad that didn't get it lasted about five days and then it was
Yeah.
Charles Dickens: Yeah.
Charles Dickens: But I don't even I probably can't even imagine probably what was in my urine sample my blood system because
Charles Dickens: One night I was like the withdrawals are so bad because I didn't want to take the Suboxone so I was like, all right, I'll try to, I'll try to, I'll try the weed the weed didn't work. And I'm like, all right, I'll try a couple
Charles Dickens: Tylenol threes. They didn't work. So then I'm like, I like one in the morning and my wife was out of town. So she was gone for five days for work. So
Charles Dickens: So I'm here with the kids. So I'm like, all right, I have to make sure I can be stable for my kids like I can't
Charles Dickens: So then I went back on the Suboxone because it is. And I've been mostly Okay back on the Suboxone I just don't like the way because I'll have good days and bad days. But if I'm off the Suboxone I don't have any good days right
Dr Jameson: So the withdrawal from any opiate, be it heroin Fenton no coding Tramadol like the strongest stuff the weekend stuff Suboxone method don't like the withdrawal. The same. I mean,
Charles Dickens: Magic to Tramadol
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so the receptors. They all go to the same part of your brain. Some of them are stronger than others. Some of you know, but they. Some of them are shorter acting. Some of them are longer acting, but they all cause the same physical dependence and the symptoms.
Dr Jameson: When you stop whatever whichever one of them. It is including Suboxone will be the same. The Suboxone is takes longer to come on, as you as you've learned, because it's a longer lasting medication, but
Dr Jameson: They are all opiates end of the day, and they all cause physical dependence. If they're used long term.
Charles Dickens: But I'm only on two milligrams
Dr Jameson: Once a day or twice.
Charles Dickens: Once that I changed it to before I go to bed. I used to take it at like 4pm just and then I picked the girls up from school. And I just, it was just
Charles Dickens: Mood swings and all that. But now, since I've changed it before I go to bed. It's better but
Charles Dickens: Because he tried me on eight so well. First he put me on the patch for like three days and I was high. I was just, it was
Charles Dickens: High as could be like, and I mean high. He's like, Oh, let's just keep doing it. And I'm just like, dude, I'm highly I am completely hot so we took that off after three days. And then I started the tongue ones.
Charles Dickens: So for three days. I did like eight milligrams and it's I had it was like a hammer in my head, trying to come out and just and like flu like symptoms and he's just like,
Charles Dickens: I don't send that I don't believe you. I've never heard of this before. And I'm like, dude, I'm, I'm telling you, like, I don't. I want to like jump out of building the pain is so high. So then he switched it to four milligrams and it was the same problem of
Charles Dickens: The pain in the head and all that so that when he went to to it slowly got better and better and better. So
Charles Dickens: So when I last talked to him. He's like, there's, I don't even know how like two milligrams is working for you. And I'm like,
Charles Dickens: You're the one that told me in the beginning. Yeah, I'm I'm this weird patient and no one wants to talk to me like I'm telling you, like,
Charles Dickens: And then he's and then they were like, well, I think your paranoia and all that has to do with marijuana and I'm like, No, dude, I didn't start the marijuana until like November or the end of October, like that had nothing that and it's just my opinion. I'm saying that nothing to do with
Dr Jameson: Well, I could make it worse potential possibly i mean
Sometimes
Charles Dickens: Yeah, I
Dr Jameson: See what you're saying. Like you have the symptom before you started that. So it can't all be from that, that's for sure.
Charles Dickens: With the marijuana, things got better. Yeah, like with so well but
Dr Jameson: It is associated with
Dr Jameson: Delusions and paranoia, though, so
Charles Dickens: Yeah.
Charles Dickens: I used to smoke in college and I never
Charles Dickens: Thought I never had, like,
Charles Dickens: Us or anything. So yeah, let's go.
Dr Jameson: I mean, I guess the the thing to keep in mind they say is that the marijuana keeps getting stronger and stronger, you know, like they keep on concentrating it more. So sometimes anyway I that's okay, that's fine. Um, since you've been on the Suboxone. Have you been paranoid still
Charles Dickens: Yeah, a little bit. But I went off of it twice, and
Charles Dickens: Like two weeks ago, I just my wife and I mean we're like, okay, where I could get a divorce. So my wife's an attorney and she's the head of her phone very powerful woman very strong willed.
Charles Dickens: But doesn't understand addiction, so
Charles Dickens: Think of, I mean, she's a powerful attorney and I used to be a federal agent. So that's how we met. So you have former social worker federal agent, where we're both highly intelligent
Charles Dickens: But I'm patient and kind of laid back well used to be and she's very like just gung ho and straightforward. She, she doesn't. She thinks like oh, take this pill. Your finer Oh, just stop it and suck it up for like two weeks and you'll be fine. And she just doesn't understand that but
Charles Dickens: The other
Charles Dickens: Like two weeks ago.
Charles Dickens: We got into a fight in the morning because the both the girls are sick because there's huge virus going around.
Charles Dickens: And I'm like,
Charles Dickens: Well, you've been sick for a week. Now, you feel fine. Like, I'm not going to be this fucking house husband like
Charles Dickens: Every single time. And this kind of goes back to when I was working two is every single time. The girls are sick. She's like, You have to take off work.
Charles Dickens: Because I'm the boss. Right. I'm like, this should don't that's not gonna fly with me. And I want to tell you, like, the more problems I have with these opioids like shits gonna hit the fan one day well
Charles Dickens: I was like, I don't feel well. Like I don't know what's going on. I don't know if you all got me sick or this is the Suboxone but i'm not i need to sleep like i don't i don't feel well. So I got up like a couple hours later and
Charles Dickens: She we got into like this huge fight. So I come from, like, a very, very, very bad childhood and she from like a perfect childhood and
Charles Dickens: I don't want to fight or argue in front of my kids. So I got so pissed off that I just left the house and I'm just like, fuck this like
Charles Dickens: And which I've never done before and I told her, like if I leave the house. It's going to be really bad news. So my friend has already come over took all my guns.
Charles Dickens: Because I asked him to I don't just in case I'm not, I don't have those type of thoughts or anything, but I don't need that stuff around. So I was just like, I'm just, I need to get away, and she kept calling me and I'm like,
Charles Dickens: She's like, oh, everything's okay and I'm like, it's not okay because she doesn't know how to talk to me when I get upset like because he doesn't understand. She just really think
Charles Dickens: And she's just like, I don't. Why can't you be like you used to be and I told you not to get on the opioids. I don't do that. I'm like, but you aren't at the doctor's appointments
Charles Dickens: So if you're not at the doctor's appointments, you can't. Six months later, say, Why are you on this drug like you don't understand the pain that I go through
Charles Dickens: To even do what I do throughout a day that so you think it's very easy to be like, hey, just go live your life and do this. And she's like, I need to see how many jobs, you've applied for because because we
Charles Dickens: We were very well off, we have
Charles Dickens: Millions of dollars in real estate and all this. And now, like we're getting behind financially and all that stuff. And she'll say, like, hey, I need you to address your
Charles Dickens: Medical stuff, but you need to get back to work. As soon as you can. I'm like, that's been the problem I keep going back to work too early for the last three years since the ski accident so
Charles Dickens: I just, I was like, completely paranoid. So I just went to the flight Ferry Building and just sit there and like walked around and looked at the ships and all that stuff. And I'm just like, I don't like why can't she like understand or anything, and
Charles Dickens: I'd stopped the Suboxone and I'm like, all right, well, maybe this is because I'm not on the Suboxone. So I went back on it again and things seem to get a little bit better so
Charles Dickens: I mean,
Dr Jameson: Are you on any other medications. Besides, it. Awesome.
Charles Dickens: Now, they just the neurologists, try to put me on like Wellbutrin and I'm like dude like this is
Charles Dickens: Like
Charles Dickens: I know I'm contradicting myself because as a social worker, and I understand the social stigma and all this and he's like telling my wife like restless leg syndrome and opioids can lead to depression like trolls, you probably have to be depressed and I'm like,
Charles Dickens: Well, the thing is, it's like everything is like so frustrating. Like you're 40 years old, you have a three and a four year old who like you can't give them what you want. Now you can't say for their college. You can't go on vacations and do all this stuff because
Charles Dickens: Doctors like you're not you. I'm talking about no matter all just like I told you I didn't want to be on opioids. And then when I told you I was paranoid and
Charles Dickens: All this stuff that I completely understand like eating candy for like three straight days. That's when I knew that methadone was wrong. I'm like, Oh, holy shit i'm i'm addicted.
Charles Dickens: Like you all didn't listen. So now I've lost my job, my marriage is really problematic and then now when I'm never going to see you again. You're like, oh, take this Wellbutrin. It's like
Charles Dickens: I need to get off opioids, so I don't need to be on anti-psychotics or whatever. That's just my opinion because if I can get off the opioids.
Charles Dickens: I think that I'll be okay and his thing is, you'll never be off anything because you're restless leg syndrome. It's too. There's something wrong with your own
Dr Jameson: They done
Dr Jameson: Sorry to interrupt you. Have they done like workshops for a seizure disorders and stuff like that going to be at ease and all that.
Charles Dickens: Yeah so October 2008 18
Charles Dickens: I was washing my two year old at the time and I collapsed in the house.
Charles Dickens: Sorry, having a seizure. I was able to call my wife this when I was on Percocet and the fire department broken my house and I'm like having a seizure and all this. They take me to the hospital and to Kaiser and
Charles Dickens: It started this huge
Charles Dickens: fight between doctors, so
Charles Dickens: They in the ER they determine there's three things going on. You still have post concussive syndrome.
Charles Dickens: You have TBI from the ski accident or you're addicted to opioids. So they did all these tests like psychological testing. I went to counseling. I went to. I had heart test had blood test I had
Charles Dickens: Vestibular tests where they were like checking my ears and my balance and everything and they came back everything. They were like, you're addicted to opioids, like that's what all this is yeah you a lot of your stuff from opioids.
Charles Dickens: Is kind of the same thing as your TBI and depression. So that's why everyone probably thinks you're mentally ill. So they referred me right back to the neurologist, who's the head of Kaiser in California. So I can't speak bad about him. So when everyone
Charles Dickens: referred back to him. He went right back to, well, this is the medication.
Charles Dickens: Let's just budget and I was in so much pain. So that's what I agreed to go on a method. Oh, yeah.
Dr Jameson: So, okay, but so they they did check you for they did the eg where they put all the electrodes on your
Charles Dickens: Head.
Charles Dickens: They did like to sleep test, they did.
Dr Jameson: That's how they found them out to sleep.
Dr Jameson: I man. Okay.
Dr Jameson: I have seen people actually I just had a lady yesterday came in and she I got the sense that maybe she like doesn't metabolize the way that most people do. And like things build up in her system.
Dr Jameson: So maybe you're some similar to that. Like some people just are missing an enzyme or something. And so they don't clear the medicine at the like normal.
Dr Jameson: Rate, you know, and then metabolites build up that are toxic and sometimes, sometimes there's that going on, and especially somebody that's had so many medications cause
Dr Jameson: Problems. It does kind of make you wonder, you know, there's something about the way your body processes, that's a little bit different than most people.
Dr Jameson: Um,
Dr Jameson: The other so when you're taking the Suboxone two milligrams at that time you do a strip or a tablet.
Charles Dickens: Strip. So, I still have the eight milligrams and just cut them into four
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Well, they come into so it might be easier.
Charles Dickens: And
Dr Jameson: You might even be able to cut that if you wanted to. Have you ever tried. It's hard to cut it into too many pieces, I guess.
Dr Jameson: You haven't tried the lower dose then to right
Charles Dickens: Now, I've never done. I mean, I've thought about like how to taper but
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Well, you're just saying it still causes some funny thoughts. That sounds like
Charles Dickens: Yeah, I mean, and here because like I know Bo is maybe not in the beginning, but I'll eventually know that it's
Charles Dickens: The withdrawal symptoms like on. Oh, that it is, but then it's like
Charles Dickens: Like, like I said last week, my wife had to go to Palm Springs for five days for work. So it's like
Charles Dickens: I had to go back on it, so I could take care. I can't have like a flip out with the three and a four year old because not not safe. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Well, so the paranoid thoughts are when you're not taking the Suboxone or when you are
Charles Dickens: When I'm not apparently that was with methadone and oxy codeine and all that I had. I don't have it with the box now.
Dr Jameson: Except if you stop it.
Charles Dickens: Correct. Ah, OK.
Dr Jameson: So some people that are part of withdrawal. It's like agitation.
Charles Dickens: Oh, yes.
Dr Jameson: Risk restlessness insomnia.
Dr Jameson: You know, the hot and the cold, which you probably I think you mentioned that already.
Charles Dickens: Bad back pain.
Dr Jameson: I was just gonna say generalized pain.
Dr Jameson: Basically all the things that opioids do like pain relief making you sleepy relaxing things, making you constipated. Apparently, they have to do with your temperature control.
Dr Jameson: Because when you do anyway when you take them away like all the opposite things happen. It's, it's like you've had brakes on with the with the medication. And so your body has been revving up to, to maintain its normal speed it's had to work harder. And when you suddenly remove the brakes.
Dr Jameson: It's still working harder. So all of a sudden, everything goes crazy. And it takes a good long while, for all the receptors to like reset themselves back to the original thermostat.
Dr Jameson: That makes sense. Maybe you already know that, but that's okay. So, and then, um, so let me so you're not on any other medication justice Suboxone correct
Charles Dickens: No i mean i i am
Charles Dickens: So I did. Like I said, I did. I'm just telling you this, to be honest, not because I don't, I'm not here to hiding, I think. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Thank you.
Charles Dickens: I did take the tunnel threes to help with the withdrawals. And then I started back with the marijuana. I was off the marijuana for a while because I was like, I gotta get a job and then I just
Charles Dickens: I have. I can't do just a Suboxone i mean i got people emailing me now for interviews for jobs. So I know I'm gonna have to stop the marijuana and soon but
Charles Dickens: It's I don't do it to get high. I do it like it relaxes me and then I take the Suboxone and then I go to sleep.
Charles Dickens: It doesn't. I mean, it helps with the restless leg syndrome. But you can't really sleep, even on Suboxone but that could just be doing the general anxiety that I have with my life right now. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Have you ever had, like, going back to, you know, like general we got the restless leg, the sleep apnea. The head injury. Any other medical history, prior to all that
Charles Dickens: So when I was eight years old, I had, I don't remember, but my parents told me
Charles Dickens: I remember this. But my older brother kicked me in the face, the soccer ball. We were playing soccer and I went into the house and I was like, bleeding profusely out of my nose and my dad like clean me up or whatever. And that night.
Charles Dickens: He said, I was just sitting up in my bed like like a zombie. My mom, who was the first female coffee Kentucky came home took me to the ER. I don't remember any of this. And they, I was there for like two weeks.
Charles Dickens: I remember like after a few days the hospital, but I remember the first few days and I i had a massive seizure and they said I was fighting in the hospital and all that. I don't remember that.
Charles Dickens: So I had some type of massive seizure memory loss.
Charles Dickens: And
Charles Dickens: So I got discharged after like two or three weeks and then everything was okay and then around like
Charles Dickens: 12 years old 13 years old I was playing football and I just started getting really, really, really bad migraines and I had to quit sports in in middle school and the beginning of high school and I got sent to
Charles Dickens: Vanderbilt you know Vanderbilt right
Dr Jameson: Uh huh.
Charles Dickens: So I got sent to some head specialist there. And he was saying that
Charles Dickens: Well, I think I got sent there after the seizure anyways because I'm from a small town in Kentucky. They don't know what the hell they're doing
Charles Dickens: So they were he was saying like after the seizures, like a couple months after when I was at Vanderbilt.
Charles Dickens: The longer time goes, the less likely. He'll have another massive seizure, but other head trauma may come, you know, whatever. So a couple years later when the headache started my mom. We went back to Vanderbilt.
Charles Dickens: And they were did a bunch of all the head tests and stuff like that. And they're like, we can't see any reason why he's having any of these migraines or
Charles Dickens: Memory problems and things like that. So I stopped sports and then when I was like a sophomore, junior in high school, like the headaches went away. So
Dr Jameson: So you don't have those anymore.
Charles Dickens: No, I mean, that was so then that was like I was like 15 or 16 they went away and then
Charles Dickens: The migraines and stuff started back when I was like 2526 maybe like 27
Charles Dickens: And I had those for like a couple years, and I would go to the as with Kaiser
Charles Dickens: And then we give me shot in my butt with for like migraines.
Charles Dickens: And then eventually, that is, they went away again. And then the Russell's leg syndrome started. So after that so
Dr Jameson: So. So back when you were a kid, they must have done they so you were diagnosed with a seizure disorder. It sounds like
Well,
Charles Dickens: My mom actually sent me all that stuff like a couple months ago, the stuff from the doctor. And that's how I actually remember everything they said he, he had wrote, she had his doctor's notes and
Charles Dickens: They were saying was a one time event. So as long as I didn't have another one. So the longer time passed, the less likely to have a seizure again well
Charles Dickens: I never that I know of. I wasn't diagnosed with the seeds. They were saying it was a one time.
Dr Jameson: Event.
Charles Dickens: And getting hit in the face with the soccer ball.
Dr Jameson: But then you've had more seizure since then so
Charles Dickens: But on opioids. Right.
Dr Jameson: Well, but, you know, so some people. This happened to my sister in law. Some people have like a little bit of seizure activity.
Dr Jameson: Like very mild and they need some certain needs to be there, but they're more prone to having a see like it's easier to get somebody to have a seizure than somebody else. And so again, I mean, but again, I'm not a neurologist and I don't know how to read eg I've also heard of rare.
Dr Jameson: Seizures that cause mood changes, like if it's a certain part of your brain. It can affect your how you think and not necessarily make you shake
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: Rare
Charles Dickens: I played college football for two years and I can. I know for a fact.
Dr Jameson: bonked a lot. Yeah.
Charles Dickens: I know for a fact I've been knocked out and got in, because you that's how it was back then. So it's like what 17 years ago 18 years ago 19 so I know that I've
Charles Dickens: I don't, I would probably at least say three or concussions maybe or your bell rung or whatever. But I know I've been knocked out.
Charles Dickens: And then like, oh, get up and you go on and play so
Charles Dickens: I know that I've had those head injury. Well,
Dr Jameson: Has anybody ever asked you.
Dr Jameson: Ever you ever asked me about what is it
Charles Dickens: What is it CB. What does it CVT CB ticket. Yeah.
Charles Dickens: I mean, I, I've shared everything with the neurologist, they said that I didn't play long enough.
Dr Jameson: That's funny.
Charles Dickens: They're all saying that there's everyone
Dr Jameson: Anyway, so you said you're going to be seeing a
Dr Jameson: New neurologist, is that right
Charles Dickens: Yeah, but he's saying, so he's trying to give me one.
Charles Dickens: At Stanford.
Charles Dickens: And then give me one that's like two blocks from my house.
Charles Dickens: But this this doctor is this neurologist is
Charles Dickens: Is it's just, he's not very reliable. I'll just say that
Dr Jameson: Well can you call yourself and turning and appointments
Charles Dickens: Yeah, they won't do it without a referral.
Charles Dickens: And they
Dr Jameson: But I don't think it has to come from a neurologist. It just has to come from. Usually the referrals from a primary care.
Charles Dickens: Only neurologist. Okay. Yeah, I know, I went, That's another great Socratic stuff that I went through actually
Charles Dickens: A primary care doctor to at Kaiser and he wouldn't even do it. He's like, I'm not a neurologist, so I'm not going to refer you to the neurologist, but I'm like you referred me to this neurologist. He's like, Oh, I can't do non Kaiser neurologists
Dr Jameson: Yeah, that's what it is. Well, they can't refer outside but now you don't have Kaiser anymore.
Charles Dickens: Correct. But they won't even take a primary care doctor with anthem, the only taken the only take neurologists to neurologist. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Must be some special super duper neurologists
Charles Dickens: Well, my wife's best friend is some bigwig Kaiser and they're like, you have the addiction specialist and the neurologist, that's who. Everybody wants. And if the only person that complains about him and
Charles Dickens: She's like, I understand why you complain about him, but I'm like, Well, I'm just must be
Charles Dickens: Like
Charles Dickens: Well, no, I must not be special. That's what I mean. I'm saying, like what I told him when he wanted me to taper off methadone and I'm like, should I do this by myself in your house in my house with a three and a four year old.
Charles Dickens: He's like oh you'll be fine. Your wife's there. And I'm like, yo, yo, did. I'm just telling you like I used to be a social worker like
Charles Dickens: Do I need to go to like some groups. Is there someone I could call to talk to you did it. And he's like, you'll you're strong, you'll be able to do it on your own. And I'm like,
Charles Dickens: Okay, well I got worse. And I'm like, so I'd call them and be like, is there anyone that I could talk to her, whatever. He's like, Oh, this is just the side effects, you'll get through it so
Charles Dickens: Throughout all of that I never had anyone to talk to you or anything. I mean, that's a tangent. But so, but any other medical stuff.
Service any operations or
Charles Dickens: Man, so I've had
Charles Dickens: To right ankle surgeries.
Charles Dickens: College football.
Charles Dickens: Five left knee surgeries college football.
Charles Dickens: One right knee surgery. That's because my brother, my twin shot me with the BB gun. Okay.
Charles Dickens: For
Charles Dickens: left wrist surgeries three are from college football. One is from a being a kid.
Charles Dickens: One right wrist surgery when I was 15 I broke both my wrists, the same time.
Charles Dickens: Just fell down.
Any non orthopedic things
Charles Dickens: I've had
Charles Dickens: surgery on my eye because I fell down on the ice rink.
Charles Dickens: When I was like
Charles Dickens: Like 12 or something and I had to like clean it all out and staple it and stitch it all up.
Charles Dickens: I've had like my wisdom teeth pulled and I've had to skin grass and my mouth.
See because
Dr Jameson: We have your appendix, and your gallbladder and all that stuff.
Charles Dickens: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Is there anyone in your family that had issues with substance abuse abuse alcohol.
Charles Dickens: I would say who hasn't okay um
Charles Dickens: Where do you want me to start
Dr Jameson: Well, I guess we're, we're gonna have to wrap up because we only have a few minutes. So, but there's a strong family history and what types of substances, I guess, let's just
Charles Dickens: So both my brothers alcohol.
Charles Dickens: My dad was a poly substance user never really worked. Kind of a loser.
Charles Dickens: My mom. My mom was fine.
Charles Dickens: Okay. The granddad on my mom's side and Granddad. On my dad's side or I'll call it
Dr Jameson: And have you had an issue with alcohol at all. No.
Charles Dickens: I don't drink very rarely
Dr Jameson: How about smoking cigarettes.
Charles Dickens: No, never smoked cigarettes.
Dr Jameson: And
Dr Jameson: I I've gotten the blood test back but not the urine tests yet, so I can't answer your question about what's going to show in there, but it
Charles Dickens: Should be
Dr Jameson: Marijuana Suboxone and and some coding, I guess.
Dr Jameson: Yeah okay um no other like math or any other stimulant type stuff. No.
Charles Dickens: federal agent and a cop for like eight years.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Charles Dickens: I would have been caught
Dr Jameson: I'm thinking, well, you know, I've had a couple patients recently who have had problems with paranoia, but both of them were smoking mask so I'm just thinking about the paranoia on anyway.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so
Dr Jameson: We'll continue. What will you on the two milligram Suboxone did they tell you how our program works with the groups and that sort of stuff.
Charles Dickens: Well, I mean, I was telling them that I mean they did, but I don't. I mean, I don't, I don't really have a problem with like the one on one. But like
Charles Dickens: Because I see this is like Doctor induced like yeah I know I said yes but I was like, you got to do this. You got to do this. And I was like, so much pain that I got to where I am, because of
Charles Dickens: Of what the doctors did to me. So like, that's why. Like, I don't. That's what I mean. And I know you're going to see things differently. I don't go out and do these i don't i don't
Charles Dickens: I don't spend my money on extra Suboxone or heroin or anything like that. I do everything I can to like be a good dad and be a good husband and
Charles Dickens: That everything that I have is from withdrawals mainly not from like the actual use
Charles Dickens: So that's why I don't know.
Charles Dickens: If I would even be beneficial to other people in the group because it's like all I need to do is get off the box on I know those guys need to get off opioids, but like
Charles Dickens: I don't know.
Dr Jameson: Well,
Dr Jameson: Our program is really designed to be. I mean, the doctor visit is in the context of the group. So
Dr Jameson: I. You're not the first person to say they don't really feel like the group is is necessary or relevant, but
Dr Jameson: We actually just had a conversation the other night about somebody else who felt that they are in the situation because DOCTORS PRESCRIBED too much and higher doses. And I mean, so you're, you're, that is not, you're not unique in that in that
Dr Jameson: Situation at all.
Dr Jameson: We do do individual counseling and
Dr Jameson: That is usually I usually require a couple months of one on one work with a counselor and sometimes it's to deal with stuff that's happening as a result of using opiates. Sometimes the reason people are using opiates in the first place was because they were not dealing well with other
Charles Dickens: The one on one. I don't have a problem.
Charles Dickens: Like because I used to do. I used to do groups. So, yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, well, um,
Dr Jameson: I guess I don't know what to tell you other than I mean if it's, if you're like absolutely not willing to sit through a group. Then I this probably isn't the best program for you.
Charles Dickens: I'm not, I'm not willing. I just know like I don't
Charles Dickens: My experience of like groups and
Charles Dickens: Stuff like that is like is. I mean, I don't know, maybe I don't have the insight as as
Charles Dickens: Well,
Dr Jameson: I mean, I think people find that it's it's comforting to have a community of people that understand you in a way that
Dr Jameson: Like somebody like your wife or even me on some level, I haven't lived it myself. So I don't you know it's
Dr Jameson: People find it comforting to be able to have a sort of a group of people that gets gets it in a different way. The feeling of withdrawal and the frustrations of, you know, being judged negatively maybe
Dr Jameson: And so, you know, even if it's not like a
Dr Jameson: Talking about, you know, maybe some of the things we talked about might not be relevant to you if you don't have, you know, have situations that make you feel like using more because it doesn't sound like that's really been
Dr Jameson: So much your. We also have chronic pain group which might, that might be a better fit for you, potentially, if it's been more of just a managing
Dr Jameson: A symptom that that ended up getting you in this in this situation. So, I mean, we could we could talk about transitioning over to one of those other groups, maybe I don't run any of those myself, but we have other doctors that do
Charles Dickens: Um,
Charles Dickens: Yeah, and I just like I said over on just frustrated because like, to me this is preventable. And that's why my wife is so upset. I like
Charles Dickens: Specifically was like telling, they're all just like get me off this get me off this him before. I was like, I don't want to go on and he's like oh you'll be fine. And don't
Charles Dickens: Beat me down for like years and then I finally like convinced to do it. And then I'm like, Okay, now I'm addicted. Give me off of it and it's been a two year cycle of
Charles Dickens: Switching around opioids. That's where I understand now like now I lost my job and all this, where a lot of people. That's what happens when you're addicted. But it's like
Charles Dickens: All of my problems came from withdrawals or whatever. But yeah, I didn't say I'm against it. I mean, I'll try it. I'm just, I don't. Okay.
Dr Jameson: I missed, I missed, I missed. I didn't understand what you meant. Okay. Um, so
Dr Jameson: I'll send the prescription. How much do you have left. Now, are you
Charles Dickens: Pretty much a four month my neurologist gave me a bunch, because
Charles Dickens: Of Suboxone yeah
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Charles Dickens: Or months worth
Okay.
Charles Dickens: On out
Dr Jameson: Like prescriptions. You mean you don't have the actual medication.
Charles Dickens: The actual location. Oh, he gave me 30 you gave me whatever four months worth this
Dr Jameson: Surprise the pharmacy dispensed that much, or did they mail it. Did they do a mail order thing.
Charles Dickens: He went down there with me. Oh.
Dr Jameson: Oh little Kaiser has their own little pharmacy. Right.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: Alright, so I was gonna say we could we could switch you to the two milligram
Dr Jameson: Film. If you want to start snipping
Dr Jameson: Or trying, you know, snipping little pieces off that
Dr Jameson: And you know, we can
Charles Dickens: I can do what I have now it's not. I mean,
Dr Jameson: Okay. Well, I mean, you have it so you might as well use it, I suppose. But that is what I'm saying, like, at some point, we could start using the smaller strips and then you could see if you can gradually now you're still going to have a problem with restless leg.
Dr Jameson: So that's and that's. I'm not going to get nervous. I'm not going to help you with bad part, obviously.
Dr Jameson: Um,
Dr Jameson: So I can hopefully by, you know, as time goes on, you'll get the new neurology evaluations.
Dr Jameson: And then I think just pay attention. You know, sometimes head injuries cause all sorts of weird things which you know certainly sounds like it's cause seizures for you, but sometimes it causes mood disorders to happen to I mean if you're prone to paranoia.
Dr Jameson: Or mania Armenia, or whatever, which is possible to, I guess, you know, have you did the psychiatrists ever talk to you about anything about those sorts of symptoms.
Charles Dickens: No, like I did the individual counseling for like a month. And he's like, dude, like, why are you even here like
Charles Dickens: You have the insight and then I did like the waist exam and all that psychological testing and they're like, here's
Charles Dickens: Your
Charles Dickens: You're addicted opioids, like you got it off.
Dr Jameson: All right. Well, in a way that's I mean it's not good. It's bad news, but it's also, I mean,
Dr Jameson: I think that's better than having an
Charles Dickens: Oh, yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, like you having a psychosis that we you know we have to treat in some other way anyway.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so I guess I don't write you a prescription anytime soon.
Dr Jameson: But yeah
Dr Jameson: So the way that works. We'll get you set up to meet and you may not need a whole bunch of counseling if assistance, you've already gone through and you know so we everybody gets at least an assessment by a counselor and then they decide on what you know what the appropriate
Dr Jameson: Treatment plan is
Charles Dickens: My wife says I need an emotional release because she doesn't know how to handle it.
Charles Dickens: But yeah, which is finally man.
Dr Jameson: And sometimes, and sometimes I don't know if we do couples counseling here. But maybe that's something that, or maybe she can
Dr Jameson: You know, if there's resources for her to learn a little bit more because it. You know what, I'll be completely truthful for a very long time in my medical career I
Dr Jameson: Doctors, you're right. Like we don't understand what these medications do and some of that is our fault. Some of that is because there was all this miss
Dr Jameson: Miss information still you know oxy content is less addictive is what they told us. So if the patient has pain and you're treating pain. They have a much lower rate of getting addicted. That's what they told us. So, and then
Dr Jameson: I, you know, until I started really working with with addicts. I didn't understand a lot of this stuff either about the withdrawal and how long it takes, and
Dr Jameson: Anyway, so I'm not. It's not an excuse. I mean it's it's not
Charles Dickens: Defensive why
Charles Dickens: I tried. I tried for seven years to get her to read a very reader friendly book.
Charles Dickens: By cops X certain ways.
Charles Dickens: And I tried to get her to read
Charles Dickens: Like methadone withdrawals mirapex mirapex withdrawals, which is almost up there with freakin
Charles Dickens: Methadone is equivalent to cocaine and I gave her like a very two page article and said this is what I'm going through and she didn't read it because she's
Charles Dickens: She's scared because I'm not the person that I was when we met. I know that I'm not my parents.
Charles Dickens: My mom and stepdad know that my, my brothers know that friends know that I'm not the person that I was, but she I told her, like, you have to educate yourself like you have to, and she just she's scared. I know that she's scared, so I'm not gonna go, sir.
Dr Jameson: You're scared to. I'm sorry, mutual you know yeah it's, yeah. Well, okay. So you'll get an evaluation by the counselor and then
Dr Jameson: There are groups meet weekly. I mean, if I'm not prescribing your medications for now. I think maybe if you want to come every other week for a while and you know sit in and you can participate little very little, you know, he's going to
Charles Dickens: Listen, anything to do so.
Dr Jameson: Or you can come every week. Okay.
Charles Dickens: Yeah, it's, it's, yeah.
Dr Jameson: And then so my the groups that I have on Wednesday during the day better for you than evening.
Charles Dickens: Yeah, any kids.
Charles Dickens: At school or something. Yeah, yeah.
Dr Jameson: Um, so it. I have a 1030
Charles Dickens: And this is
Charles Dickens: Big time. Anything.
Dr Jameson: Yes, I'm on Pacific time
Charles Dickens: Every Wednesday.
Dr Jameson: On Wednesday at 1030 in the morning, or I haven't 12 o'clock noon.
10 dirty.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so I will
Dr Jameson: I will pencil you in there, do you, how do you prefer to go by Charles or
Dr Jameson: Yeah, Charlie, or okay
Okay.
Dr Jameson: All right, and it'll be
Dr Jameson: The two once we get there, but not yet. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Yeah i mean i think i think there's sometimes a benefit, just to sort of anyway. It's all walks of life, there's, there's a
Dr Jameson: GUY JUST GOT ANOTHER felony charge in this group so that you'll have an interesting. It'll be interesting.
Charles Dickens: But I'm a different type
Charles Dickens: So that's one reason that we agreed to part ways is I'm a different type. So I've been at three agencies, I was a federal agent and I worked at i was i was a sheriff's deputy. You can look this up online. I'm not lying there were deputies using urine and feces.
Charles Dickens: On inmates.
Charles Dickens: Because they wouldn't become informants right
Charles Dickens: Yeah I reported I reported those guys.
Charles Dickens: Leave that job. So I'm going to type it. I'm not this cop that that I'm not on a power trip. So I'm actually open minded. That's why I got pushed out of both places that are work because
Charles Dickens: I don't, I'm not read to I don't I don't go to a domestic violence call and think that the woman's lying. Every time and she deserves it. Like, that's how I look ups are they are so
Dr Jameson: Um, and then there's a guy who's in school to be a counselor himself and works in a home anyway. I think you'll you may find it interesting to some of the people. There's a guy who's a producer in LA. He has his own recording studio i mean it's it's it's different. They're different.
Charles Dickens: So what about the one on one that someone else would contact me about that.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so they'll, they'll schedule that and then just so you know for group which I and you're not a smoker. So that part. You don't we ask people not to smoke during group.
Dr Jameson: We asked people to have headphones in for privacy purposes and you I see your home alone. And that's anyway. But we still just because you can't see what's behind here.
Dr Jameson: We just ask that for like privacy hip hop purposes.
Dr Jameson: And you start in the virtual clinic every time. So the way you did today for any appointments, no matter what it is that's
Charles Dickens: Where, you know, sorry your code again.
Dr Jameson: Um, how did you get to that. Yeah. So there'll be and then with the groups that the code changes every week because
Dr Jameson: We want people to go through the virtual clinic. Sometimes they need to pay a copay sometimes we need to check that they've had their drug screen done in the last month and you know there's a variety of little things that have to be
Charles Dickens: Sent to me, or I'll just check in, or how to
Um,
Dr Jameson: I don't think an email is going to be sent. But if you
Charles Dickens: We ask people to go and check in and then
Dr Jameson: We asked people to check in about a half an hour before group starts because, you know, sometimes it backs up a little bit while everybody's mind.
Dr Jameson: You'll see you'll get some surveys in the email to you every week. They asked, they're really into a monitor measurements and data and
Dr Jameson: looking for trends and different things. So when they ask you to fill out surveys once a week. So that's another thing that they want to make sure you've done before I let you in group. So anyway, um, if you. I don't know if you have a calendar or something if you can just
Dr Jameson: Pencil in 10am on Wednesdays and then sorry yeah 10am it's one my time 10 years time.
Dr Jameson: And then there's usually a weight. So just prepare yourself to have something to read or something while you're waiting
Dr Jameson: And then Jamie will be in touch with you. I don't know if you've met her yet but she'll be in touch with you about scheduling the counseling.
Dr Jameson: I'll see the let the labs when they come back and and they it is what it is. I really more about being with you. I think without saying, you know, honest and forthcoming whether, whether it's good or bad report that's okay we
Charles Dickens: Just want to be. But there's a blood work. I mean not everything's
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so far, everything's fine. Your blood count your liver tests and think, well, the hepatitis greens and all that are in fact, but that you haven't been injecting anything so
Charles Dickens: I don't think we have any reason to worry
Dr Jameson: About any of that.
Charles Dickens: I would be stupid to cheat on my wife.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So, um, let me just pull it, I think. Yeah. So. So some things were still pending but the initial basic stuff was all fine.
Dr Jameson: And so yeah, I'll let them know you'll do the 1030 group and
Dr Jameson: If you're unable to come for some reason. If you can just let us know ahead of time. So we're not wondering where you are and
Dr Jameson: Whether we need to make sure you're okay or not, you know,
Dr Jameson: And then hopefully as time goes on, you'll get, you know, a second opinion from a neurologist about some of these other restless, miss.
Dr Jameson: Seizure type things, and I mean I don't know to me as a neurologist, I still unlike well, does he have some sort of minor seizure disorder or
Dr Jameson: Mayo Clinic something, you know, some other sort of specificity problem or something.
Dr Jameson: Not that I would know how to treat those things or even diagnose them but
Charles Dickens: I said it when you were talking, but
Charles Dickens: So Tramadol I'm allergic to as well. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Was a the dis the during taking it or was coming off of it.
Charles Dickens: Taking it
Dr Jameson: Okay, I wanted what happened with that one.
Charles Dickens: So that was like
Charles Dickens: The diary. Also, but also like really bad like nausea and like vertigo like like the room was getting like really, really bad.
Dr Jameson: Okay well so vertigo will cause nausea. So I guess it wasn't for her to go and diarrhea. Okay. All right. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, it sounds like you're yeah I mean, and some people are like you. You give somebody what seems like a low dose of something and they're like well you know it's it's it happens and it's unfortunate.
Charles Dickens: I don't even know how I know 20 milligrams, isn't that much but like I don't even know how was a cop for that long. I was on that stuff for like nine months and I was still like
Charles Dickens: Net looking back, I'm like, holy crap. I was high, as I was high as a kite everything
Charles Dickens: Yeah.
Charles Dickens: The commute and everything well
Dr Jameson: Yeah I we are started there. I mean, you hear more and more
Dr Jameson: Talk i here in the medical community I literature about
Dr Jameson: Metabolized thing and hyper mid to end and the other starting to be able to do some testing to sort of evaluate that a little bit, the psychiatrists are usually the ones that don't know more about that stuff. Some of them, not all of them.
Dr Jameson: But yeah, someday maybe we'll find out what it will be. It'll make sense when we learn more about how that all works and how you work and
Dr Jameson: Okay, so, um, any questions about Suboxone in general the medication itself, how it works, what it does.
Charles Dickens: I think I understand. Yeah.
Charles Dickens: I just, yeah.
Dr Jameson: It's, um,
Dr Jameson: Do you have pain currently
Charles Dickens: In my fee. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: One of the weird
Charles Dickens: No, not right now but it kind of it starts in the evening. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: One of the things that's unique about this drug. I don't think I've heard of any other drug that has this feature.
Dr Jameson: It has an analgesic property like it does address pain, to some extent, maybe not as much as some of the other opioids, but it works better for pain if it's taken in more frequent smaller doses.
Dr Jameson: So I'm just WAS JUST THINKING MAYBE. And again, it would be hard to split your strip into eight pieces. It's bad enough doing for but
Dr Jameson: Taking a half of your dose in the morning and a half at night. You know, sometimes that is better, as far as pain control actually sometimes we have people taking
Dr Jameson: Well, most people are taking one higher doses, then you are but you know taking for six doses, you know, splitting it and taking it even every so many hours.
Charles Dickens: Yeah, I can. I can try to
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So if it's
Charles Dickens: Not that big of a deal is.
Dr Jameson: Okay. I mean, I know some people say they get
Dr Jameson: soggy. After a while, and
Dr Jameson: Anyway, and I guess you do want to be super duper careful with those giving that you have little, little people running around and they're such small
Dr Jameson: Okay, you know, one blows away.
Dr Jameson: Accidentally you know
Charles Dickens: Yeah, keep it locked up. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Be careful with the little, little fragments, I guess.
Dr Jameson: So if at any point you want to switch to the smaller you know it'd be the same size strip, but it would only have two milligrams in it. So you would have more
Dr Jameson: Ability to split it into smaller doses, you know, just let me know if you want to do that and that dose is not. Oh, it's not very commonly used. So sometimes the pharmacies have to order it like they don't necessarily keep it in stock. Okay.
Charles Dickens: Sometimes we, you know,
Dr Jameson: Just a little heads up, I guess if you want to do that. So we have a little time to do the logistics.
Charles Dickens: Along with a taper off.
Dr Jameson: Well,
Dr Jameson: I think I mean that's obviously it's always an individual
Dr Jameson: Experience like everyone is different. Anyway, and then you sound like you're
Dr Jameson: Extra you know unique. I don't want to say it's it just, you're just super sensitive, so
Dr Jameson: I don't think I can answer that in like, you know, six weeks or, you know, in a very specific way. I think it's going to be
Dr Jameson: Sort of as we go. And then, how, how much each drop caught you know how many symptoms each little drop causes and how long it takes for that to stabilize again on the left lower dose.
Dr Jameson: There are
Dr Jameson: And you also have some features that are unique, like the the different thinking is not an issue that most people
Charles Dickens: Respond report.
Charles Dickens: I have memory loss and then I have like a stutter. Now, sometimes I gotta be like, well, did that, that, that, that, and then it finally comes out. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So, I mean, I, I have to say I do wonder if there are other factors going on here that some maybe I'm
Dr Jameson: Certainly the Suboxone and the withdrawals are aggravating things and causing all sorts of some, some of your symptoms, maybe most of them, but it also just still makes me wonder if you don't have an underlying
Dr Jameson: You know, maybe from the TBI me. I don't know. But, you know, some of those. They're not things that are typically related to opioid
Dr Jameson: Use or discontinuation. So I'm eager for you to get the the extra super duper neurologist involved because this is this is some of this stuff sounds maybe unrelated.
Dr Jameson: But generally, when I'm tapering people. I tend to drop the dose and maybe once a month and and in pretty small increments and I will be honest it. The hardest part is going from the small last dose to none.
Dr Jameson: So, you know, we usually use their drugs that we sometimes add to address some of the symptoms like we sometimes use najah medicine, say if you're feeling nauseous, so that you can, you know, treat some of the some of the discomfort can be medicated somewhat
Dr Jameson: There's also for the hot and cold and jumping is sometimes we use other drugs like Clonidine or hydroxyl, which is an anti histamine.
Charles Dickens: I'm allergic to Nortriptyline also. Okay, thank you.
Dr Jameson: So, in your case, I'm going to be really nervous about giving you anything really because
Charles Dickens: Well, I'm which I will let you know. Very good.
Charles Dickens: I usually know
Charles Dickens: I usually can tell within like 123 days.
Charles Dickens: I'm pretty in tune with my body to know like
Dr Jameson: What happened with Nortriptyline
Charles Dickens: So Nortriptyline was paranoia.
Charles Dickens: Headaches, and like just
Charles Dickens: Really, really bad mood swings.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: There's nobody in your family that has any
Psycho psychotic type diagnosis. Right.
Charles Dickens: Mental illness.
Charles Dickens: Yes.
Charles Dickens: What sort
Charles Dickens: Of so my
Charles Dickens: Dad's dad had schizophrenia.
Charles Dickens: He died in a mental institution. My dad's brother had schizophrenia.
Charles Dickens: My dad sister had depression.
Charles Dickens: And attempted suicide four times and the fourth time she was successful.
Charles Dickens: My dad's dad or I'm sorry, my dad's brother who had schizophrenia also had multiple suicide attempts.
Charles Dickens: My dad, he had to be depressed to be on to be an alcoholic and a poly substance abuse. I mean, he had to be. There's no other and I have a master's degree in forensic psychology and I there that man wasn't right. I'm just saying that
Dr Jameson: I was gonna ask you do you do now that you know a little bit about what you've experienced you looking back to you feel like you ever saw evidence that maybe he was hallucinating or not thinking right
Um,
Charles Dickens: I never thought about that. I mean, I knew about the drugs. But he, he, when he was on drugs he Yeah he hallucinated like he would, he would talk about being in Vietnam, and he was never in Vietnam, like all this stuff.
Dr Jameson: And he was hard to assess that if he was under the influence of something
Dr Jameson: Correct letter that was him right I met a
Charles Dickens: Dream Lee violent and my mom was a cop.
Charles Dickens: Yeah picture that your mom's a cop and your dad's been the shit out of you and your mom doesn't do anything and your mom's a juvenile detective who
Charles Dickens: And a sergeant who investigates kids being beaten by their family.
Charles Dickens: My mom's that my Mom's Mom grandma was depressed and was on antidepressants for her entire life.
Charles Dickens: Both my brothers, my twin and both my brothers have been diagnosed depression like outside of drugs.
Charles Dickens: Yeah, and then
Charles Dickens: I got diagnosed just this last time.
Charles Dickens: I got my medical records and read it but so they she diagnosed me major depressive disorder with psychotic features induced by methadone or Kim can
Charles Dickens: Okay.
Charles Dickens: Oh, but I've never had any type of mental health issues. So
Dr Jameson: Yeah, well, up until the last so many years. Yeah.
Charles Dickens: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No.
Charles Dickens: Nothing.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, well, so that's a very, you know, that's a very strong family history and again in the same way that we talked about, you know, sometimes people are, it's easier to get one person to have a seizure. Then somebody else.
Dr Jameson: And, you know, same thing, it may just be much easier for you to get obviously I guess we obvious that it is easier for you to have hallucinations and other people because it's happened several times already.
Dr Jameson: So yeah, but there may be. There's probably genetic factors involved in that as well. Sounds like
Dr Jameson: Okay, well,
Dr Jameson: Other than recommending
Dr Jameson: Not taking methadone, I guess, I guess. So that's the, that's the the diagnosis, unless it ever happens again when you're not taking methadone and then we have to rethink or maybe it was from something else, but
Dr Jameson: I guess what I'm getting at is sometimes we treat the the psychosis with medication if it's, you know, continues to keep being a problem. So I don't know.
Dr Jameson: If it has ever been.
Charles Dickens: I never had it on gab repenting. And I had it on
Charles Dickens: Didn't come off Suboxone yeah
Dr Jameson: Yeah. So it seems like that. So that's what I guess what made me think, because people usually get agitated and anxious and restless and all that stuff, but they don't usually
Dr Jameson: Get frankly you know paranoid. So, or have psychotic features. So you may live like close to that edge anyway. And then, so we'll see. I think that's, that's going to be the probably the rate limiting step here is is how you do as if we tried to drop the dose.
Dr Jameson: Does the Suboxone create any side effects for you. Like if you. I hope this isn't the case. But if you had to just stay on it forever with that. Like what would. What would, what would you think about that.
Charles Dickens: Mean it's better than methadone, but
Dr Jameson: Yeah, especially if it helps your foot pain, I guess.
Yeah.
Charles Dickens: I have like the temperature issues I have the memory loss, the memory loss issues.
Charles Dickens: And then some days I just don't have, like, I'm just move forward. Yeah, then like yesterday was the first day I've worked out in two months, which is I work out three to four times a week like run 20 miles a week and not just that.
Charles Dickens: And then
Charles Dickens: Kind of like not not like really bad but kinda like, and I know some of this has to do with my life because of where I am now but kind of like some down and out thinking like like daydreaming of, like, Why does my life suck of kind of focus more on the bad thoughts. Mm hmm. So
Dr Jameson: Do you ever have thoughts. I know I have to ask you, um, do you ever have thoughts of hurting yourself or being better off dead.
Charles Dickens: Not, not, not on the Suboxone know
Charles Dickens: I've had those thoughts. It's because like
Charles Dickens: Like the painting of the withdrawals are so bad.
Charles Dickens: The neurologists isn't listening to you. You go to the ER and they're like, oh, talk to the neurologist and oh
Dr Jameson: You're addicted and circles. Yes.
Charles Dickens: Yes, and then wife doesn't understand and then oh, now your wife's gone for three days and you got a three and a four year old and I have both girls. So I don't know what to do with girls they they run all over me. Scott, you know,
Charles Dickens: So,
Dr Jameson: Well, I'm sure you're you're getting that you're probably figuring it out as time goes on it.
Dr Jameson: Anyway. Alright, so I guess, you know, I guess I just asked you to keep an open mind, because, you know, depending on how things go.
Dr Jameson: We may abort our attempt and to see you know what they run a very low dose like super duper low already
Dr Jameson: And maybe we'll get it down even further, but you know whether we'll be able to get you off completely. I will have to you know that remains to be seen. Does it help the restless way. Yeah.
Charles Dickens: I don't have any I haven't had, um, well the only time I've had restless leg issue was last week when I went off of it.
Dr Jameson: When you run on it. OK.
Dr Jameson: So maybe that's the treatment for your restless leg and you just, just what it's going to be, and we'll see what we can try to get the dose as low as, you know, so, though the bare minimum.
Dr Jameson: But you're it is already a pretty darn low dose. So I don't know if that makes you feel better or worse. I don't know.
Dr Jameson: Okay, but I mean that that there is a bet. So there's a benefit to it, but it makes you you feel like it makes you tired, sometimes. Yeah, yeah.
Charles Dickens: And then I don't want to. Well, I mean, and then get back to where I was where I thought I was feeling fine and then I go back to work. Yeah. And then I end up. I don't know.
Dr Jameson: I mean, so when that was happening, you were still on it.
Dr Jameson: Are you trying to get off it when you went back and go back to work.
Charles Dickens: Was I was on the 10 milligrams of methadone and the marijuana because I just couldn't, I couldn't get off the methadone. It was I went cold turkey.
Charles Dickens: And that that was painful. Yeah. Yeah. And I felt like ants for crawling on my face and my arm it and then add the restless leg syndrome, just so I went back on the 10 and I can't stabilize once I added in the marijuana
Dr Jameson: Before you were diagnosed with a restless leg. Had you ever been treated. I mean, you had a lot of surgery. So I had you had opiates, like after the surgeries in the past.
Charles Dickens: Yeah, and I never really had a. It wasn't a problem.
Charles Dickens: I mean the Common side effects of like
Charles Dickens: Constantly
Charles Dickens: Yeah. But no, I never had it.
Charles Dickens: I had a problem with anesthesia.
Charles Dickens: Okay, which is, I guess.
Dr Jameson: I just wonder if
Dr Jameson: If because you had some. I'm just wondering if somehow your system got primed to somehow. And then like all along the rest of his life has been withdrawal from
Charles Dickens: That
Charles Dickens: I've brought that up before like because of so many surgeries so many things with Anastasia, and so many shots of payment so many times I've been on
Charles Dickens: OBO paint, maybe something my body up there like, oh no, that wouldn't happen. It just was totally brushed aside all this stuff just doesn't like come out of nowhere. Like, I don't. And he's so
Dr Jameson: I mean, I think.
Dr Jameson: Well, my personal approach. I never say never. Because I don't think it makes sense to
Dr Jameson: Assume you know everything about everything. Like there's, you know, I feel like there's always an exception to every rule so
Dr Jameson: You may be it like a case report, you know, you might be the person that they published a study about, you know, you know, a report about because this is a very unusual. I mean, it sucks when it's you and that does not make you feel any better that you have this. You're the lucky winner.
Charles Dickens: My neuron is unlike publish about me. And he just looked at, like, whatever. Well,
Dr Jameson: So, but, you know, it's, I guess, you know, maybe will again someday someday we may find I think just keeping an open mind and continuing to ask questions and like getting other opinions which you're I know you're doing as much as you can because you're not in charge of all that but
Dr Jameson: And hopefully those doctors will also keep an open mind that maybe
Dr Jameson: Just maybe, I don't know. I don't know for sure either. I'm not saying that that is what happened either, but
Dr Jameson: The whole thing sounds so unusual that I just makes me wonder like, maybe there's something here, we, we are missing.
Dr Jameson: Which includes you know brain injury from all these concussions that you've had over the years, like maybe that is playing a role here. I don't know. I don't know.
Dr Jameson: Um, so anyway, you may be a question mark for some time.
Dr Jameson: To our best at least keep your symptoms. I mean, I feel like that's all we should focus on for now is keeping you as comfortable as possible with restless leg as far as that stuff goes and pain and, you know, minimizing or avoiding the withdrawal symptoms. And I think that's
Dr Jameson: You know, that's going to be the top, top of the list than anyway for for priorities on my end. I don't know how you feel about that but
Charles Dickens: It sounds good. Okay. All right.
Dr Jameson: All right. Well, I think that's a lot of talking for one day. Right.
Dr Jameson: Um, we will plan on seeing you next Wednesday at this thing 10am in your head.
Dr Jameson: And then Jamie will be in touch with you about the counseling initial anyway and
Charles Dickens: You again are
Dr Jameson: Well, so I'll be at the group's every week.
Okay.
Charles Dickens: Okay.
Dr Jameson: And so usually and I do. I think from some of the things going. I think it will be, if nothing else, just like a relief to have people that understand what understand how you've been feeling and a different, you know what I mean, I think that will be just therapeutic in and of itself.
Dr Jameson: A little bit.
Charles Dickens: Okay.
Dr Jameson: All right. Um,
Dr Jameson: No problems, perhaps, we're here to help. So, um, and then if you ever need anything. The virtual clinic is where you go, you know, if you need
Dr Jameson: At some point, and you need refills and stuff like that. Well, we try to address that and group basically that's how you're supposed to address that. But even if you having any issues or problems. We do have psychiatrists here too. So depending on how things are going.
Dr Jameson: I don't know that we need to involve them now, but I'm not a psychiatrist by training but but we some of our doctors are so just throwing that out there too. If we ever decide we want to involve somebody that has more knowledge about these sorts of things. And I do
Dr Jameson: Have that opportunity to
Charles Dickens: Already
Dr Jameson: Okay. All right. Well, nice to meet you.
Charles Dickens: Use what
Dr Jameson: All right, I'm hanging in there. Is your wife away now or she's
Dr Jameson: She's back
Charles Dickens: She's at work. Oh yeah, she's back she got back late on Saturday girl's birthday.
Dr Jameson: Ah Valentine's Day.
Charles Dickens: And it's Valentine's Day.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Wow.
You're going
Dr Jameson: You're going to want your semi
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Oh, wow. Just you and her with the kids and
Charles Dickens: Her whole family.
Charles Dickens: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Well, that should be wearing California, are you, I don't know very well, but
Charles Dickens: I live right outside San Francisco.
Dr Jameson: Um,
Dr Jameson: Okay, so I don't know, I, as I told you before, I don't know how far that is from Yosemite. That seems kind of far
Charles Dickens: Three and a half hours.
Dr Jameson: Oh, not that bad. Okay.
Charles Dickens: Yeah, look at a map. Okay, just goes, it really is.
Charles Dickens: It's one full of poop.
Dr Jameson: San Francisco is
Dr Jameson: Yes, I, I thought you were talking about Yosemite. Firstly, I know I've heard
Charles Dickens: No, Sam, but we live like we live in the server like 15 minutes away. Well, with no traffic like 15 minutes so like an hour.
Dr Jameson: What does that look like there's never no traffic.
Charles Dickens: in Alameda, if you've ever heard of me that
Dr Jameson: I have heard of it, but I don't know anything about it other than that.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Well, I hope you have a nice trip and
Dr Jameson: Yeah, we'll, we'll take it one step at a time. I hope, I hope this works out in a
Dr Jameson: You know, as far as getting you what you need either staying stabilized on it. And definitely, or I mean it and still I think what we do see is that people that there are side effects of medication. It's true.
Dr Jameson: But they tend to look, obviously, the lower the dose that you're on the less intensity, you're likely to have with side effects. So
Dr Jameson: Even though for most people would already be a very low dose like for you, you know, maybe we get you down to a quarter of the two milligram films and your symptoms are controlled and you don't have so much lethargy, so we'll see how it goes.
Charles Dickens: Okay, all right, all right. Appreciate you know, have a good day. You too. Bye bye.
Dr Jameson: You know how to get out of here.
Charles Dickens: Yes, they do.
Dr Jameson: Okay, you see the leave meeting. Okay, so people like it's like
Dr Jameson: Okay. So Charles Dickens.
What a great name.
Dr Jameson: Is here for the initial history and physical
Dr Jameson: Hey, and I guess I should always say confirm their name and date of birth and
Dr Jameson: Confirm to give consent for treatment using video
Dr Jameson: So HDI
Dr Jameson: Charles is a 40 year old gentleman.
Dr Jameson: Who presents today for trends position from an outside position.
Dr Jameson: Period. He has a an unusual medical history.
Dr Jameson: In that he developed restless leg syndrome.
Dr Jameson: In his I think he said
Dr Jameson: That is particularly severe and has been
Dr Jameson: Very difficult to treat. He's been followed by a neurologist for quite some time. And after numerous medications which caused a variety of side effects.
Dr Jameson: They ended up
Dr Jameson: Moving to methadone.
Dr Jameson: Which
Dr Jameson: Sounds like it worked okay for the restless leg but
Dr Jameson: He subsequently be realized that he's physically dependent on it and had extremely difficult time tapering the dose.
Dr Jameson: Due to
Dr Jameson: Withdrawal symptoms, but also which, in his case, seem to include paranoia and sometimes psychosis hallucinations.
Dr Jameson: Period. That's a very long sentence. So you can make multiple
Dr Jameson: He also has a history of seizure.
Dr Jameson: Starting at age seven, after a head trauma, but he had another seizure when the last few years.
Dr Jameson: As well as a ski accident and he doesn't know how that happened. But he didn't have hit his head. He also
Dr Jameson: Both high school and college football also has had a number of head injuries.
Dr Jameson: Are head traumas, I guess, over the years.
Dr Jameson: He's
Dr Jameson: Been using Suboxone in place of the Methadone looks like methadone was taper down to about five milligrams. And then he was started on Suboxone a few months back.
Dr Jameson: After an evaluation by an addiction specialist. The initial dose was eight, but that seemed to cost of your headache and ultimately was
Dr Jameson: taper down to two milligrams, which is what he's been on currently he's had several attempts at stopping that as well. And each time develops typical withdrawal symptoms as well as paranoia and some hallucination.
Dr Jameson: This whole sequence has caused him to lose his job. He's currently unemployed also creating some tension in his marriage.
Dr Jameson: He's been on disability temporarily, but then denied that there's going back and forth between his employment.
Dr Jameson: Disability
Dr Jameson: Policy and more typical disability. So that's still in
Dr Jameson: In the works. He's also transitioning from Kaiser to anthem, because he lost his job. So now he's got to move to different doctors so peace in transition.
Dr Jameson: To see a new neurologist.
Dr Jameson: I think I detailed the past medical history surgical family and all that pretty
Dr Jameson: comprehensively their
Dr Jameson: Mental Status and physical are normal.
Dr Jameson: There's no evidence of any
Dr Jameson: Hallucination or paranoia at this time he denies suicidal ideation.
Dr Jameson: So diagnosis, I think is, is
Dr Jameson: opioid dependence.
Dr Jameson: If there's a distinct distinctive code for that, as opposed to use disorder.
Dr Jameson: He seems basically just to be physically dependent on it, number one. Number two, restless leg syndrome, which is does control.
Dr Jameson: Plan.
Dr Jameson: We I described the our program.
Dr Jameson: To him, and he's a little bit reluctant to deal with deal in a group setting but willing to he currently has quite a bit of the medication lefties splitting eight milligram films into four pieces just taking one at that time. So he doesn't need any refills anytime soon.
Dr Jameson: We will get them scheduled for bio psychosocial I have some partial labs back already. So far, everything normal
Dr Jameson: Keep unreserved the idea of a psychiatry evaluation, depending on how things go so far it seems that his psychotic features have been drug induced or withdrawal induced
Dr Jameson: But I think it's given his family history not
Dr Jameson: Out of the out of the
Dr Jameson: realm of possibility that he has an underlying psychotic disorder that's possibly aggravated by medication.
Dr Jameson: I am hopeful that the new neurologist for review. Consider whether he has an underlying seizure disorder and or whether there could be some
Dr Jameson: CBD. What is that chronic
Dr Jameson: Underlying brain disorder related to his repeated.
Dr Jameson: head traumas.
Dr Jameson: CTE. I think that's what it's called, like a traumatic encephalopathy sE tE
Dr Jameson: So he's gonna join our Wednesday 1030 group which will begin next week and
Dr Jameson: We'll proceed from this
Dr Jameson: High
THE QUEENS LG: Hey,
Dr Jameson: I heard you got stuck in the line.
THE QUEENS LG: Yes.
THE QUEENS LG: Yes, I put him on the
THE QUEENS LG: phone and call the virtual room, nobody's answering. Oh.
Dr Jameson: I'm so I just wanted to chat real quick about
Dr Jameson: Your drug screen, which was a couple weeks ago now, but
Dr Jameson: It tested. Did you see that it tested positive for math.
No.
Dr Jameson: Well, then, does that
THE QUEENS LG: I remember
Dr Jameson: Yeah, it was back in. I think it was the one in January, took a while. I asked him to make this appointment and then something out that drop. Anyway, so I just, I just wanted to know more about that.
THE QUEENS LG: Bet
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: No, I mean, I appreciate you being know. I mean, some people are like, I can't be anyway so
THE QUEENS LG: And I didn't do that. I can't believe it, test it, cuz yeah
Dr Jameson: Is it like a thing you do here and there was a one time.
Dr Jameson: Coming more
THE QUEENS LG: Than just somebody comes around and hazard do that.
THE QUEENS LG: How often is that
Dr Jameson: typically happen.
Often
Dr Jameson: A specific person or a variety of
Books.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: And so that was like me or D or Christmas or something.
THE QUEENS LG: And he was here for two and a half weeks.
THE QUEENS LG: jays
Dr Jameson: I mean, is it like something you need to be talked into doing are you, you kind of
THE QUEENS LG: everything you just said here. You want someone so true.
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
THE QUEENS LG: We're doing this. Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: So he's not around now.
THE QUEENS LG: Not right now.
THE QUEENS LG: Since they still come out, he just he left like yeah he left like and I think six days ago.
THE QUEENS LG: Four days ago, something like that.
THE QUEENS LG: Yeah, because he stays and
THE QUEENS LG: No, no, I just wasn't keeping up with the Joneses, I guess.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I mean, does it
Dr Jameson: I guess it's always a concern, you know, as far as maybe not making good decisions when you're under the influence. And, and so I guess that's
Dr Jameson: I guess I just want to make sure it's not sort of the first step on the wrong of
THE QUEENS LG: Elaborate on I
THE QUEENS LG: Do, do, whether that's for sure that Maria publishing to get it but
Dr Jameson: Wow, I mean,
Dr Jameson: You know, but
Dr Jameson: I guess, is there something that you're getting out of it. Like what's the benefit other than keeping up with the Joneses
THE QUEENS LG: Well, just we were just to
THE QUEENS LG: Just to burn unless I remember he pulled it out and I did some
Dr Jameson: Sort of just being social not like, would it be an issue. If you said no.
THE QUEENS LG: Oh man, I could have said no.
THE QUEENS LG: No, he wasn't pressured me into anything
Dr Jameson: I'm
Talk.
Dr Jameson: About
Dr Jameson: Him at Christmas or something I thought was alcohol or
THE QUEENS LG: And that was
THE QUEENS LG: For everybody is that next.
THE QUEENS LG: Party over here. It's like my girl drinks after she gets her husband might have a beer, too. But yeah, there's no hard liquor, that's my thing and drinking really isn't, it isn't a thing when I do, I can have, let's put it this way. I drank really good for like five years.
THE QUEENS LG: When I will know this was, um, it's been shipped 1970 1997 I got married. So I could jump in before 1997 and a half drunk, like I can social drink now without getting up in the morning and having a drink.
THE QUEENS LG: Yeah, but I went through, like when my dad passed away for like five years straight.
THE QUEENS LG: When my mom passed away. Yeah. Well, that was a mess up a bit. When I quit. I quit. And I was virtually when I quit.
THE QUEENS LG: And I was, yeah. I still beta mean and I wouldn't drink a drop for 12 years. I think it was close to 12 years
Dr Jameson: Wow, that is
THE QUEENS LG: Where you
Dr Jameson: Know that's impressive. Wow.
THE QUEENS LG: Yeah, it's because of the things for me would say, and then I have to do speed Rambam know it's it's my downtime was opiates. That was oh
THE QUEENS LG: So I am like, I totally stole away from anybody that has anything to do with them. I've never been heard, and like that just kills it.
THE QUEENS LG: So,
THE QUEENS LG: Probably closer to her to get
THE QUEENS LG: You can't even get them in Canada.
THE QUEENS LG: Nobody
THE QUEENS LG: Chose to go off of pills. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, no, I just
Dr Jameson: I hadn't seen this before and I just was like, oh, this was a little bit surprising to me. So I just wanted to find out more about what the situation is.
Dr Jameson: I mean, I guess, are you
Dr Jameson: medicating anything like feeling down or depressed or Ty I mean is it uh
THE QUEENS LG: Well, I mean, I am bored to death because I don't have anything to do except babysit bands and kids and clean the house.
THE QUEENS LG: Man, that medication everything. It was just something to do
Dr Jameson: Is there any other ideas about addressing this boredom.
THE QUEENS LG: And
THE QUEENS LG: You know,
THE QUEENS LG: This weekend ran thinking to go to Santa Cruz this week.
THE QUEENS LG: And then Rosetta I haven't seen these people for like 40 years, and oh, so that's where we're at.
Dr Jameson: So is that like a reunion or something.
THE QUEENS LG: It's one of the girls birthday, and she's turning 60 but we are. Oh, so we're going to
THE QUEENS LG: We're supposed to have a big party. I don't know if the group is going to show up to pick my best friend from high school.
THE QUEENS LG: As opposed to picking up. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Do you predict. Do you anticipate there being any
Dr Jameson: substance exposure there.
THE QUEENS LG: Maybe alcohol that I don't have an issue with that, no, not like that. I mean, I can have a drink. I cannot have a drink and just, I don't really care if it's
THE QUEENS LG: Simply like oh my god
THE QUEENS LG: Yes, and
THE QUEENS LG: Then you know yeah yeah I'm not
Dr Jameson: I'm not that penetrates okay and you don't feel like the math isn't a
Dr Jameson: I guess a risk, as far as I close, either.
THE QUEENS LG: I don't think it is.
THE QUEENS LG: Really good. I'm doing good. Without pills, you know, I mean, yeah, I actually was just saying to my bad with that. But I think the medication that I was on the painters, maybe for. So I don't know if that makes sense. But I felt I was American. Yeah, no.
Dr Jameson: No, I think you're absolutely right. There are, the more recent studies are showing that chronic opioid treatment creates more pain.
THE QUEENS LG: Yeah, cuz I was, I was in prison for 20 years
THE QUEENS LG: And you're not the first person to say that. I mean, you feel more pain when you first stop.
Dr Jameson: Them as a
THE QUEENS LG: Job.
THE QUEENS LG: Then once you
Dr Jameson: Once you get through the withdrawal actually pain level sometimes improved.
Dr Jameson: Very often, and fruit. Yeah.
THE QUEENS LG: And when I'm sorry I still had another Western pen. But it's, it just doesn't seem, I don't know. It just doesn't seem so
THE QUEENS LG: So tired, YOU KNOW. I JUST ON AN ANSWER BETTER. My body feels better. Yeah, good. But I'm still in another pain just it's just different, and
Dr Jameson: Well, it may be a lot of pain is we were talking about this. And one of the groups and all those years. But pain is in a lot of ways is perception. So it's how how you how the way that pain affects you can change like depending on how you're like, if you're distracted or, you know,
Dr Jameson: There's other factors, I guess, besides just
THE QUEENS LG: It's not
Dr Jameson: It's not black and white, I guess.
THE QUEENS LG: I made my skin color is different to I was kind of
THE QUEENS LG: You know, yeah, I don't know if it was when the pills or whatever, but probably when my skin is changing them step in three years. So, yeah.
THE QUEENS LG: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Well, I mean, obviously I'm not like
condoning
Dr Jameson: And I rather you weren't using that. So I guess, at least it's not something you're doing on a regular basis or that you feel like you have a problem is
But
Dr Jameson: Obviously the more you do something that more
Dr Jameson: Possibilities for having a problem with it.
So,
Dr Jameson: Less is more.
Dr Jameson: I yes i think i mean it's not
Dr Jameson: Always a good for you either the heart and blood pressure and
THE QUEENS LG: All that stuff so
Dr Jameson: Okay. All right. Well, I just wanted it. I didn't. I don't like to, like,
Dr Jameson: call people out in the middle group about this kind of stuff. So
THE QUEENS LG: I yeah
THE QUEENS LG: I was like oh my god what happened when
THE QUEENS LG: You're not in trouble. I just
THE QUEENS LG: I mean it's that's
Dr Jameson: That's silly. But I just, yeah, that's it.
THE QUEENS LG: I guess you're due for my next test. So, you know,
THE QUEENS LG: Just
THE QUEENS LG: Okay.
Dr Jameson: All right, well, yeah. So let's try not to have that become a recurring theme.
THE QUEENS LG: Yeah. Also,
THE QUEENS LG: I got
Dr Jameson: You got sent it.
THE QUEENS LG: I'm supposed to that show that man because
THE QUEENS LG: Rubber week, I'm sure.
THE QUEENS LG: Wow, but I had to bet.
Dr Jameson: They say five days, but I guess for you. It's longer
THE QUEENS LG: It was because I had the flu and I was just, you mean
Dr Jameson: All right.
Dr Jameson: That's right.
Dr Jameson: I'll let you go. I have another patient meeting and I yeah anyway, I just wanted to find out more about the situation.
THE QUEENS LG: Okay, yeah.
THE QUEENS LG: I'm good on the bed.
THE QUEENS LG: no issue with love. God knows. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And I hope you have a nice time if you end up at the reunion. That sounds fun.
THE QUEENS LG: To go to
Dr Jameson: Thank you. See you next week.
Dr Jameson: Bye.
Dr Jameson: Hello.
Dr Jameson: Can you hear me.
Dr Jameson: Yes, ma'am. Hi, I'm Dr. Jamison
Shane bailey: Hi.
Dr Jameson: Nice to meet you.
Shane bailey: Nice to meet you.
Dr Jameson: Did you oversleep or what happened.
Shane bailey: No working, my phone died.
Shane bailey: Mama surveyors was way out there and I was trying to get back. I'm really sorry.
Dr Jameson: That's okay. I am I obviously stuff happens when you don't really want it being a kind of, you know, regular occurrence, but
Dr Jameson: Some of this is some of this is like
Dr Jameson: Learning. Oh, zoom really drains my battery. I better make
Dr Jameson: Sure. It's really, you know, I need to have a good
Dr Jameson: Connection and you find the places where that where that works better. So, some of this is just kind of a learning
Dr Jameson: Learning Curve, but
Dr Jameson: So anyway, um, do you have a decent block of time now.
Shane bailey: Yes.
Dr Jameson: Please, at least half an hour. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Um,
Dr Jameson: So if you wouldn't mind confirming, I'm just going to go over. So we just really getting like review your medical history and any medications you take or whatever and then
Dr Jameson: Family, you know, just kind of like the general medical survey and then we'll talk about, I don't know if you've been on Suboxone or your
Dr Jameson: This would be your first experience or and we will talk about medicine and how it works and that kind of stuff, and then decide if it seems like the right fit for you. Usually it is
Dr Jameson: And then get you started. If so, so, um, so if you could just confirm your name and birthdate first of all
Shane bailey: Shane Bailey January 25 23 you're
Dr Jameson: In California, correct.
Dr Jameson: Um, and then you're obviously I assume it's should I guess I was implied with your contract with the video version of the visits, instead of being in person.
Dr Jameson: And then we do record just, you know, I guess I realize I haven't been telling people they record these sessions and the transcriptionist goes in and like types it all up, but they do save
Dr Jameson: Transcribe transcription of everything that's said just for posterity. Anyway, so just just, you know, you're being recorded.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so let's start with easy stuff. Are you allergic to any medicine that you know off.
Shane bailey: No, no.
Dr Jameson: Okay, and then are you sick. Are you just
Shane bailey: No, no, no, I just
Shane bailey: I'm so sorry I got some coffee.
Dr Jameson: It's, it's kind of flu season. There were a lot of people with
Shane bailey: stuff around here. But no, I'm okay. I'm sorry.
That's fine.
Dr Jameson: And then are you prescribed any medications. Yeah.
Shane bailey: Let's see.
Dr Jameson: And then any previous history of any medical things like asthma or any medical history of illness big illnesses or operations or anything.
Shane bailey: Significant oh
Shane bailey: OK.
Dr Jameson: And then
Dr Jameson: No operations. Either you said right
Dr Jameson: Does anybody in your family suffer from any substance or alcohol kind of issues. No.
That's
Dr Jameson: Good. The more genetics are that are involved more
Dr Jameson: Things been getting
I
Shane bailey: Don't know why.
Dr Jameson: Okay, well,
Dr Jameson: I take the approach. You know, I think it's important to look at why where we've been and where we've come from. And just to understand for future learning purposes. I don't see a lot of benefit and you know
Dr Jameson: torturing yourself about all the things you wish you hadn't done or had done differently. It's that's not very productive usually so
Dr Jameson: But anyway, um, so I guess. Yeah. Do you smoke cigarettes.
Yes.
Dr Jameson: And how much these days.
Shane bailey: I'd have to pack. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So does that cutting back on or
Shane bailey: Oh no that's been pretty average high school
Dr Jameson: And then how about any alcohol, either now or in the past.
Shane bailey: In the past,
Dr Jameson: That's been a problem like you had to stop, are you
Shane bailey: Yeah, I had, I had a pretty severe drinking up on but I quit. I haven't been drinking
Since 2000
Shane bailey: Like 17 I say
Shane bailey: Okay, maybe the end of 2016 960. Wow.
Dr Jameson: Great. So you have you have
Dr Jameson: Definitely some some skills there as far as, you know, avoiding thing.
Shane bailey: That yeah
Dr Jameson: No problem. Yeah, good.
Shane bailey: Pretty much it was, it was just done with it. I got into a motorcycle accident. I almost lost my leg.
Shane bailey: Oh yeah, so I didn't want to have that
Dr Jameson: So you had. Did you have to have surgery on that.
Shane bailey: Yeah. Yeah. Well, I guess so, yeah.
Dr Jameson: I forgot about that.
Shane bailey: I guess, I guess.
Dr Jameson: This happens all the time. I don't know.
Why
Dr Jameson: It happens all the time. All right, so they had to do reconstruction and fracture repairs and so my
Shane bailey: God. Yeah, they did fix my kneecap and
They
Shane bailey: They were talking about maybe going back in time, I might need a
Shane bailey: Knee
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you have pain there.
Shane bailey: Yeah, yeah. So this is just, I think it's going to have it for life. So the, you know, it's just they should have should have been drinking and driving my motorcycle, I guess.
Dr Jameson: I guess the general generally good advice. Yeah, but it doesn't mean you deserve to have lifelong knee pain now.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you have chronic knee pain and anything else I heard to lower that subject.
Shane bailey: No, no. Just, just my knee.
Shane bailey: I did have served in the end they did actually work on my arm to I broke my arm. Pretty good, but it doesn't hurt. It was all the same. It was all the same. The
Dr Jameson: Same side sounds like yeah
Shane bailey: Yeah, same thing, my armor doesn't hurt just just my knee.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: I'm okay and then are you okay you just said your survey or right
Yes, man.
Dr Jameson: What kind I don't really that's
Shane bailey: All answer there. I'm on the I'm an engineer.
Shane bailey: Okay, yeah.
Dr Jameson: So you like it when people are preparing to build something
Shane bailey: That sort of thing. Yeah. Yeah. And while they build it and everything in between. Yeah, it's
Shane bailey: Really easy. It's easy. It touches the ground we
Shane bailey: You know we do catch no relation to oppose
Dr Jameson: Know you're saying
Shane bailey: Is not very interesting.
Dr Jameson: Cat is those are
Shane bailey: Drawing right computer yeah yeah it's yeah it's
Shane bailey: Good.
Dr Jameson: Okay, sounds like a good job.
Shane bailey: Yeah, I like it.
Dr Jameson: Especially, it's always good to have a special skill that not anybody else can do. I think
Shane bailey: Yeah I lucked out yeah yeah I lucked out with it doing it for a long time.
Dr Jameson: So you have a college degree.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, yeah, at least. Yeah. Beyond that,
Shane bailey: No. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Good. But you didn't go to school and come out as an English major. Right.
Dr Jameson: Now do I do you haven't been nice, good, good girl. That's great. Yeah.
Shane bailey: I was, I was gonna be in English me. I want to be a writer, but it wasn't gonna pan out
Shane bailey: Got one that would pay said
Dr Jameson: Who do you live with.
Shane bailey: Just be
Dr Jameson: Any kids are excellent.
Shane bailey: Yeah. I have four kids in an ex wife.
Dr Jameson: Wow.
Dr Jameson: I didn't hear by or contractor.
Shane bailey: Yeah, I see him. I see him. I see him all the time.
Dr Jameson: How old. How old are they
Shane bailey: My oldest she's 10
Dr Jameson: Okay, yeah.
Shane bailey: And then 10 all the way down to one. Uh huh.
Shane bailey: Okay.
Shane bailey: So you have like 9807 and one
Dr Jameson: Oh wow, that's quite a spread
Dr Jameson: Do you have like you share custody or are there.
Shane bailey: Issues. Yeah. Which. OK. OK.
OK.
Dr Jameson: And any. Well, you mentioned that the motorcycle thing any legal issues that have been
Shane bailey: Yeah.
Shane bailey: Yeah, I'm to two years ago, I was a
Shane bailey: I got a
Shane bailey: 211 which is a strong arm robbery.
Shane bailey: I didn't, I didn't, I just don't know them already. But you, who is a I was well I was doing drugs. I lost it wasn't working. And I was hungry and I took a little bit of food from our grocery store. Oh.
Dr Jameson: Is that a misdemeanor or felony. I don't know.
Shane bailey: It's a feeling I gotta strike everything
Dr Jameson: Did you have to serve time
Shane bailey: Yeah, I did. I did a year.
Dr Jameson: And that was two years ago so
Shane bailey: Yeah, I've been out for a year.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Jail, at least.
Dr Jameson: 2019, I guess, something like that. Okay. Any but you don't have any limits on your license or anything. No, that's okay. Um, alright, so I guess that brings us to the the main subject at hand. So tell me what your
Dr Jameson: I guess how were how your journey started or where you know where you've been.
Shane bailey: Ah, I, I used to rodeo.
Shane bailey: All through high school. When I first got out of high school during college I I really
Shane bailey: Got you. I got just a few injuries, you know, surgery, but I, but I got I got her a few times and was described up you know payment.
Dr Jameson: Uh huh.
Shane bailey: And then
Dr Jameson: Did you grow up.
You know,
Dr Jameson: California, okay. I didn't know they did rodeos.
Shane bailey: It's cowboy capital. The world.
Dr Jameson: Oh, yes. It depends on what part of California.
Shane bailey: Yeah, yeah, there's like cowboys.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. That's awesome. Cool. Um, okay, sorry. It's just true. So you started with prescription and then
Shane bailey: Yeah, and then
Shane bailey: That was a long time ago that was, you know, when I was in my 20s early 20s and
Shane bailey: I had those off and on for quite a while and then they stopped, obviously I wasn't injured. I stopped early on, I need to begin her and equip describing them. So I started buying them on the street and then
Shane bailey: I did that for a really long time. And then, and then when the churches became impossible to get or even if by that I had a full fledged petition and the only thing I can find a substitute
Shane bailey: You know pills with was heroin. So, yeah.
Dr Jameson: Supply. So the supply hasn't dried up a lot. I am yeah yeah
Shane bailey: Yeah, he became
Dr Jameson: That in the financials.
Dr Jameson: Of it. I know.
Shane bailey: Oh yeah, oh yeah, I spent
Shane bailey: A lot of money, a lot of pain.
Dr Jameson: And that was how about how long ago did you switch to heroin.
Shane bailey: Four years ago,
Shane bailey: Okay.
Dr Jameson: And then that's when things really went down the tubes, I guess.
Shane bailey: That's when like when
Shane bailey: It really will
Dr Jameson: Really know I guess your wife had kicked you out or
Shane bailey: Oh no, I managed to give her a
Shane bailey: Decrease as well.
Shane bailey: But when ended up happening was that I went to.
Shane bailey: I went to jail.
Shane bailey: She went to a treatment that God God herself straightened out. And when I got out, I was
Shane bailey: I was clean in, you know, but then I you know
Shane bailey: I was all alone in, you know, we weren't married anymore in itself. And I have a decent job. So I have a supposedly
Shane bailey: Scott. I don't know about two years. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so how long, so you had been obviously you weren't using they didn't treat you in jail. You just detox.
Oh,
Shane bailey: No, that was pleasant.
Dr Jameson: How long would it take until you didn't have any symptoms. Just curious.
Shane bailey: Oh, well, the initial the initial just like the really bad part I didn't, it didn't it last a long time for me 30 days, right, the real bad stuff, stuff. But then the and
Shane bailey: depression. Depression and mainly mainly the fatigue was really what was stuck with me for a long time, like, seven months, eight months for I felt like a yeah I woke up, I didn't feel dog out.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, that's, I mean I'm just, I'm just asking literally for for
Shane bailey: Too long. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Intellectual reasons I unfortunately that's what I that's kind of what I've heard. You know, people have said six months, sometimes for the all
Shane bailey: Of that septa
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: I've been down, it's not, you know, it's not a straight line either right
Shane bailey: No, it's not. Sometimes, some days are better than others, and it's just and then one day you wake up you feel okay you know and it's just it takes a really long time. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: That's part of, I think what so many people and Dr. Than I didn't either know you know so many people don't understand
Dr Jameson: You know what we're facing and why it's not the same as cigarettes or alcohol or it's
Dr Jameson: It's really a
Dr Jameson: Problem anyway.
Dr Jameson: So you got out a year ago. And then when did you start using again.
Shane bailey: Oh I stayed i was i was i was clean for probably about four months, but I was staying with the I didn't have anywhere to go. I didn't have lost everything. So
Shane bailey: He felt. He says, my wife and
Shane bailey: My ex wife at that point. So I don't want to go, but my but my sisters and shoes using
Shane bailey: As well. Sister me. So when I say with her right eye gel and I didn't use for four months or so and then one day I just I don't work, it just
Shane bailey: Was there is always there so fast.
Shane bailey: They used to
Dr Jameson: And that was there.
Dr Jameson: Did you already started to feel sick without using or you just like
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So, so I know but I mean like the first time.
Dr Jameson: You used after such a long period of
Shane bailey: Oh no, did I feel sick. No. No, I didn't. I didn't, I didn't take enough, I guess, or using up to to get sick, but I feel
Dr Jameson: Good.
Shane bailey: You know, I was, I had problems with anxiety. I think that's another reason why I started using the persuasive really hideous hideous all my life, you know what, I didn't know what was like a child. I know what it is.
Shane bailey: And the reason why, when the reason I use is I can't, I can't get things are yourself. I think
Shane bailey: It's just crippling you know the things already have. So that makes it go away. It's one of the things drinking used to make it go away, but I can't do that anymore. So
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Have you ever thought like medical treatment for anxiety.
Shane bailey: Yeah, you know, they give you stuff like Wellbutrin money doesn't seem to have I've taken it for a long time, it, it makes me feel it makes me feel
Shane bailey: It's it's a weird. It doesn't stop the anxiety. I guess it helps with depression.
Shane bailey: I guess. Yeah.
Shane bailey: Well,
Dr Jameson: well written. It's not really typically religion. Religion is generally better for like down in the dumps blue kind of needing up
Shane bailey: Right.
Dr Jameson: You know, it's going to doesn't actually help anxiety at all really
Shane bailey: Yeah, and seeing that. And that's I think that's what's causing me to feel depressed because I know I have this constant just
Shane bailey: Yeah, so sometimes I am being strangled or something, all the time. You know, it becomes he gets to the point where nothing nothing matters, nothing else but making that stop. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So that's going to be part of the solution right it's finding other ways to relieve for addressing anxiety.
Dr Jameson: Um,
Dr Jameson: Do you see a doctor now.
Dr Jameson: Taking all of your turn now.
Shane bailey: I had, I had been but like I said he wasn't wasn't helping was I
Dr Jameson: Haven't ever given you any other
Dr Jameson: Anxiety meds.
Shane bailey: Here in California. You know, when they saw you along with pain pills, they don't they don't hand out anything like that.
Shane bailey: Yeah, they the others, giving them a used to a long time ago, and it did help. I mean, it helps a lot. But when they stopped driving those kinds of things is subscribing to me. But there was given
Shane bailey: On a pin. Pin. Pin at first thing you guys even after taking it for a while.
Shane bailey: Yeah, that I just felt it was like it was with only time I liked. I actually felt
Shane bailey: Okay. In the they don't do that anymore. They gave me something called out or
Shane bailey: It seems a, I guess it's like it was
Shane bailey: 45 milligrams, I cannot remember the name though they gave it to me when I
Shane bailey: When they stop giving that other stuff and it did, it would help it would help for, you know, a very, very short amount of time.
Shane bailey: That's it. That's the one. So they gave me that, and that would help. I mean, just, I mean, at first, in the beginning, it would help a little bit. Yeah. While it just, it didn't do anything either and
Dr Jameson: What about nobody ever
Dr Jameson: Tried like Prozac or
Dr Jameson: Alexa or Lexapro or any of those kinds of things.
No, I
Dr Jameson: Know I just turned my Alexa
Dr Jameson: Brian's was so
Dr Jameson: Anyway, I'm having every time.
Dr Jameson: I'm okay. Well, so that, do you see a doctor now at all. Locally there there's. Have you seen a psychiatrist.
Shane bailey: I, you know,
Shane bailey: I've only time I ever saw psychiatrist. When I was when I was in high school. We got to I got into a car accident with some of my friends and and one of the, one of my my buddy died and they sent me to a went to accounts and then
Shane bailey: I was like 17
Shane bailey: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Well, that's a counselor. But I mean, like, the doctors that that decided what medicine to give a person because, you know, for whatever symptoms. They have no
Shane bailey: No, I believe I've only ever seen a
Shane bailey: Doctor, yeah.
Dr Jameson: I mean in family practice, which is what I am. I mean we do definitely treat mental illness, a lot because it's very common.
Dr Jameson: But, you know, in the case of that are super severe and complicated by the fact that you've, you know, been in so much discomfort that you've
Dr Jameson: Been compelled to do self destructive things in order to to make that stop. You know, sometimes it's helpful to see someone that's a little bit more of an expert than us, you know, for, you know, more extensive training.
Dr Jameson: And then does it and I asked you, nobody else nobody else in your family has anxiety.
Shane bailey: Know, not that. Not that I, I know, I know.
Dr Jameson: But you remember having it when you were young.
Shane bailey: Yeah, oh my, I don't remember a time not having yeah
Shane bailey: They do have a certain, you know, it wasn't shared with me. I don't. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: That's something you would have noticed, even if someone doesn't say hey Danny.
Shane bailey: Yeah. So no, I don't think they know what does my immediate family, I don't think
Dr Jameson: You have any other traumas like earlier in life. Besides, I know.
Shane bailey: I know my, my dad's my dad's my dad was abusive, but
Shane bailey: You know, beat on this a little bit, but it wasn't that terrible. Yes.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so it sounds like it was very good either. But okay, I'm just trying to see, you know, usually when what you're describing sounds like a pretty severe
Dr Jameson: Case of anxiety to be so young and already having it. But if it doesn't run in your family and I just makes it just unusual. I would have thought there would be other people in your family if you had such a strong, strong case of it.
Dr Jameson: So sometimes it's reactive to living, you know, living in a place where you don't feel safe for years.
Shane bailey: Yeah, I didn't feel safe.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so that will raise your alert, right, which is actually not and that's a normal response to a situation, but then you kind of get stuck in that
Dr Jameson: You know Fight or Flight state all the time.
Dr Jameson: Sometimes this is more like a PTSD situation that you know it's causing anxiety symptoms. I don't know, but just just throwing it out there. I don't know if it's ever been on your mind or something. I thought about, but
Shane bailey: No, I never thought about peace. I thought that was something that, uh, you know, like veterans.
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Well, it is but
Dr Jameson: But it does not need to be a war situation to
Dr Jameson: That's kind of what happens to them right there. Don't know what the next time, they're going to get shot at. So they like live in this sort of constant alert says, you know what I mean. And that's kind of
Dr Jameson: The same, same idea just a different threat.
Shane bailey: I see I I get I can see that. Yeah, I did. I didn't I, you know, I said, you know what it would actually was, you know, I understand that.
Shane bailey: But that makes sense. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah and there's other things too.
Dr Jameson: Like if you're, if you have, you know, again, if you see I actually worked in urgent care one time and we were slopes, it was brand new, and there was a nurse there who's also was a paramedic before she went
Dr Jameson: I guess I guess before she went to nursing school and then the radiology tech and we were just shooting the shit and
Dr Jameson: I don't know how it came up, but it came up that both of them had had this very specific treatment done that has to do with movement. It's
Dr Jameson: really unusual thing, but apparently works very well anyway. Both of them have been treated for PTSD. One of them had witnessed like a college student jumped out of a building or something. And she was like, called to the scene as a paramedic and she couldn't
Dr Jameson: See it, you know, and somebody else had witnessed a bad car accident and it was, you know, it was just interfering like intrusive thoughts and waking up and you know you know anyway. Both of them had gone so it can be something even a one time thing.
Shane bailey: Sometimes
Shane bailey: So there's all different ways. Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. I mean, in the car accident. We were we in a court when we were in the car x. And I was a seat belt. Next, you know, we were so broke up. I couldn't get away. You know, we were in there for
Shane bailey: An hour so before anybody came along.
Shane bailey: With your
Shane bailey: Friend Yeah, I guess, I guess that would I guess that
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I would think.
Dr Jameson: That sounds horrible. I'm not even the right way me. That's not even a bad enough word for that sound. That sounds unimaginable.
Um,
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: Anyway, so I think my approach to this whole thing is, I'm sorry. We got you.
Shane bailey: Thinking about that, again, um,
Dr Jameson: My approach to this whole thing is, OK, we have a chemical imbalance that we can usually solve with this, the box on medicine.
Dr Jameson: But we, if we just ignore the rest of your life experience and we don't help you either process through things that need to be processed through
Dr Jameson: Treat untreated depression, anxiety, whatever, and help build coping skills that don't involve mind altering substances, we're not really doing the full, you know, comprehensive approach, you know, I mean, like, it's all part of part of the
Dr Jameson: Process, you know I'm saying
Shane bailey: Sorry, I wanna, I don't want to
Ignore that.
Shane bailey: Yeah.
Shane bailey: Well,
Dr Jameson: It isn't, it isn't really. I mean, that's obviously I didn't realize we were. I didn't mean to, like, rip a scab off of you just there unexpectedly, but
Dr Jameson: It's there. Right. And this is, I think, a common you will see one is as you go along. There's this is a kind of a common theme. Like, if we're carrying around this, or like bleeding inside and we just keep on putting a bandaid on but we never like stitch the wound.
Dr Jameson: You still have a woman that's leading like it doesn't go away just because we keep putting a bandaid on it. So, and it's sort of
Dr Jameson: The festers in there. So over time as you're comfortable. Are they gonna, we're going to like force you into something all at once when you're not ready, but I think
Dr Jameson: The point is just that we need to, I believe we need to take a more sort of comprehensive approach than just prescribing medicine and sending you on your way.
Dr Jameson: So, so we do have you taken Suboxone anywhere like in your travels
Dr Jameson: Okay, so
Dr Jameson: Okay, so, and then okay so lately, you've been using about how much And when's the last time you did.
Shane bailey: Score in but after Graham, I guess.
Dr Jameson: A day is I want you usually use or how much
Shane bailey: I mean, yeah, I'm trying to
Dr Jameson: Yeah. So have you been cutting down or that's just
Shane bailey: Yeah, I've cut down
Dr Jameson: Good.
Dr Jameson: Um,
Dr Jameson: Okay, so, so I don't go on and on about things you already know.
Dr Jameson: What do you know if anything about Suboxone
Shane bailey: That is a is an archipelago, too, but it's it's a it's not quite as it
Shane bailey: It doesn't have quite as much of a
Shane bailey: Guess effect on you. I guess it has a blocker and I understand that that it that it places in the receptors. If it takes the place of the then blocks other
Shane bailey: You know, other opiates opiates from from entering those same chapters.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. So can you give a pretty good.
Shane bailey: Good.
Dr Jameson: Graph. So yes, it is an opiate I think sometimes people are bothered by that fact. But it's a basically a
Dr Jameson: Designer, I guess, drug. I don't know if that's the right word, but it
Dr Jameson: Was created to sit in the same receptors that the opiates other opiates. Do it turns. Some of them on and some of them, it turns off like it turns off the part that makes you stop breathing. Like it doesn't it doesn't
Dr Jameson: It sits in that receptor, but it turns that signal off. So in other words, it, it does not make people stop breathing and that you know so it does not really
Shane bailey: Have much
Dr Jameson: overdose. I mean, you can overdose on it. If you really work hard at it and take ginormous amounts, not the way it's designed and mix it with other things, but mostly it's relatively certainly far more safe than then what you're taking now.
Dr Jameson: It does not create euphoria, for the most part, maybe every so often, somebody will say, Oh, I feel a little bit. We usually lower the dose.
Dr Jameson: But it's not meant to and then it does
Dr Jameson: satisfy all the physical withdrawal sort of symptoms and cravings and
Dr Jameson: Yeah, that's, yeah. Yeah. So, so most of our patients who are most successful are people that are at this point only using to not feel sick anymore. Like, they're not using
Dr Jameson: Words like you're there over the getting the high, it's just
Shane bailey: Yeah yeah
Shane bailey: I don't want, I have no yeah I didn't, I'm done with it. I don't want my interest.
Dr Jameson: Is there any particular thing that sort of pushed you into the idea of treatment now compared to
Shane bailey: Just a well the reason I haven't done before because around here. The only way to get Suboxone or methadone is to go to a clinic every single day.
Shane bailey: Yeah. And then, and that even wouldn't be so bad I could probably get, you know, I could probably do that but
Shane bailey: If I get there early enough. You know, you get there early enough. I still need to work on time but problem is that
Shane bailey: Just all the time, and they'll hit you randomly with, you know, you have a doctor's appointment, you can't
Shane bailey: You can't get your medicine until you see the doctor. Well, that might take an hour or two hours, and it's it's random. So they don't tell you ahead of time so I can just show up late to work all the time hours logistical
Shane bailey: Problem. Yeah.
Shane bailey: So that that that keeps me from being able to to do it. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So you've been wanting to for a while.
Shane bailey: Yeah, I would love to would love to.
Dr Jameson: Did your wife end up doing any medication assisted there. Excellent.
Shane bailey: Yeah, see, she got but she did. She got six you end up getting a
Shane bailey: Scene up having a really hideous blood infection that traveled to her heart.
And
Shane bailey: So yeah endocarditis. Right. She had three of her heart valves replaced with swine and update it really bad.
Shane bailey: Yes, he tried to die. But during that time. Obviously, when she was in the hospital that a one time see that by the time she got she was in there for a really long time with five months, six months.
Shane bailey: By time she was
Shane bailey: Left. She was often he went straight into a
Shane bailey: Great into a treatment.
Shane bailey: A long term treatment facility that that helped her so as far as medical yeah she was in there but
Shane bailey: As far as actual, like a treatment centers.
Dr Jameson: I mean, did they give her. Did you ever have Suboxone along the way, you don't know
Shane bailey: I don't know.
Dr Jameson: That's right. I just curious if you do you know anybody else that's taken it. I mean, if you
Shane bailey: Yeah. Yeah, I have. I've spoken to people. That's how I do. Yeah, okay, good.
Dr Jameson: I mean, it has, as you know, I mean, it has a street value, which I'm not saying like, I want you to go sell it, but I'm just saying if people are willing to pay for it. In other words, like it works.
Shane bailey: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: That's what I'm trying to say.
Shane bailey: Here.
Shane bailey: Right, actually. Yeah, yeah.
Dr Jameson: So,
Shane bailey: The reason I'm sure I'm sure
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so that's why I asked if you've had it because a lot of times people, you know, couldn't get what they really wanted and they take that as a as a replacement or something. So I'm just
Shane bailey: Scared. No, because what I understood was if you if you don't have enough like if you don't have a city supply that if you start taking it, it'll keep you need, you run out. Well then, Scott Walker's replaceable. Well, you did.
Dr Jameson: Well, yeah, right. You're
Shane bailey: Gonna you're gonna you're gonna withdraw again but it's it's it's
Dr Jameson: A little bit. Well, the onset of the withdrawals, a little bit slower longer. You know, it's a little bit more. It's a very long acting so it's more gradual that it comes out of your system.
Dr Jameson: Um, so yeah, so there's there's a couple other things that yeah so that's one of them.
Dr Jameson: Yes, so it also block.
Dr Jameson: Other opiates. So once it's in there. It's. First of all, it will push other opiates out which is important because we need to make sure you're adequately.
Dr Jameson: Sick before we try to put this in, because if we if we if you've got stuff on board already, it will push that out and all of a sudden your withdrawal will be
Dr Jameson: Invalid actually give you withdrawal until things reset again. So I want to do that. That's not pleasant at all.
Dr Jameson: But it also sticks in there. So really strong. So most other opiates.
Dr Jameson: Maybe not fentanyl but most other opiates can't get at where they're trying to go if you happen to be exposed to something again while you're on the Suboxone so
Dr Jameson: Yeah. So those are the biggest thing. So, in your case,
Dr Jameson: The only, the only thing that we sometimes have issues with is if which is happening more and more what you're taking is some heroin and some fentanyl because fentanyl last a lot longer and it's stored in your fat cells. Anyway, it seems seems to take a lot longer to get out.
Shane bailey: Of right. Yeah. No, and I and I spent a lot of time and effort to try to stay away from. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: You know, sometimes you don't know like I had somebody who
Dr Jameson: I guess there's somewhere in San Francisco where you can actually have your medicine medicine, your drugs tested and he had done that at one point, and was pretty confident that he did not have any fentanyl and then we started Suboxone and
Shane bailey: Yes, we did.
Dr Jameson: So anyway, we don't know i think it's it's it's just the biggest thing is to really we. How long does it take for you to start to feel pretty thick.
Shane bailey: 10 hours probably 12 hours. Yeah.
Shane bailey: And if I if I if I take something before I go to bed. I'm easy. Okay. When I first wake up for
Shane bailey: I mean, honestly, six, seven hours em okay for the bars course. I usually don't wait that long. Usually, you know. Yeah, I don't feel like getting sick.
Shane bailey: Well preemptively all these
Dr Jameson: There's a lot of you.
Dr Jameson: Know there's a lot of like anticipatory
Dr Jameson: Anxiety. Like, I don't want to feel bad. So I'm going to take it before you even get there and like the idea of going into withdrawal creates
Dr Jameson: Sentence almost on the
Spot.
Dr Jameson: So, some of this is, it's really. I mean, it's good and bad. I mean, yes, we can.
Shane bailey: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: You're thinking about stuff sometimes we can help with some of your symptoms, but I think in your case, I would probably and it's probably not going to be pleasant, but I think you probably need to wait at least 24 hours from your last dose of
Shane bailey: Heroin
Dr Jameson: Before you start Suboxone. So that's the like if I had to say there's one downside to it. That's the hardest part is, is that you have to go into withdrawal before you can start the Suboxone
Dr Jameson: So it's not exactly a completely similar
Shane bailey: How do you take it and soon as you take it. Those withdrawals system. Stop right
Dr Jameson: So I've seen people have told me that within if we have the dose right within 30 minutes. Some people even sooner.
Shane bailey: I'm
Dr Jameson: Certainly no longer than an hour.
Shane bailey: Yeah, I can. I can get my teeth for 24
Dr Jameson: And we can do some other medicate like what kind of symptoms. I mean, I probably have an idea about what it. How does your withdrawal.
Shane bailey: Well he's it you know that's and then legs, you know, you know, you get like paying
Shane bailey: jumpy degree and jumping fatigue, you know, General fatigue in without it for some reason. It just makes you just do you want to draw this is
Shane bailey: Actually one of my besides anxiety. One of my biggest, biggest problems is that I have, you know, I work and everything else. We have to do it. And I can't be
Shane bailey: Dog down. It makes my life impossible if I don't have money to get out of get on my own way, you know,
Dr Jameson: When you're when you go into a job. Do you have trouble sleeping.
Shane bailey: Oh yeah, that's the yeah yeah yeah
Shane bailey: Yeah, hideous insomnia. That's, that's nothing. It's just, yeah. You're terribly on. It's just a perpetual never ending uncomfortable ability, it's just, it's not so much painful.
Shane bailey: You know, like, like a like a hurt like a real sharp pain. It's just a constant nagging persistent thing that over time wears you down when you just you just, you know,
Dr Jameson: How about stomach stuff you get upset.
Shane bailey: I never, you know, that's one thing I never, I never really had diarrhea. You know, sometimes, but never I don't feel. I never, I never throw out. Okay.
Dr Jameson: I'm asking, partly because we just a document, but also because I can, you know, potentially, we can. Well, I'll send some hydroxyl the end for you. Now that might help you sleep, but it might not. Because like it sounds like the insomnia is just sort of
Shane bailey: Yeah, this is yeah, while you're feeling what you're feeling that way.
Shane bailey: It's okay, you know, I
Shane bailey: Mean your other
Dr Jameson: Your other option would be to, I don't know what would be better. Where's your other option would be to wait.
Dr Jameson: Until you know not start your 24 hours until
Dr Jameson: You know need to do an evening dose and then wait 24 hours from that.
Shane bailey: Well right right now. Right now, I haven't, I haven't used this this morning when I got up, and that was that was at a 530 I guess so. It's already I'm already looking at what just almost eight hours. I'd rather just
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I'm just doing okay. I'm just trying to think of like timing. So you don't have to stay up
Dr Jameson: All night, you'd be like staying up all day, you know, you'd be up anyway so
Dr Jameson: Okay course. I don't want to tell you to use. And then, you know, God forbid you overdose on your, you know, I
Shane bailey: Understand
Dr Jameson: Yeah okay so so that's going to be so we can definitely send some hydroxyl. The and I guess it doesn't sound like knowledge and medicine is going to be, have you helpful. Have you ever sorry there's a shadow on my face I'm trying to keep out of it.
Dr Jameson: Have you ever used Clonidine, have you heard of that. No Klonopin Clonidine
Dr Jameson: Know, so we use that sometimes people seem, it doesn't always help, but sometimes it helps with some of the restless jumpy hot and cold stuff.
Shane bailey: I don't do that. Oh yeah, that's for sure. Yeah, yeah. So you're going through menopause or something.
Dr Jameson: I never heard it described that way, but I hope that's not what
Shane bailey: Mother do it seem like that was
Dr Jameson: A little bit, I guess. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Things to look forward to. Um, okay, so we could try. I can send that to so you have a couple things that you can try overnight if you need some
Dr Jameson: Partial relief. Anyway, I don't, I don't think any. I mean, being realistic. We're not. You're not gonna feel good, but
Dr Jameson: make you less bad we can we can try anyway.
Dr Jameson: There are some anyway. Since you have to wait till tomorrow, there are sometimes delays on the pharmacy and like sometimes they need a prior all filled out sometimes they have to order it. They don't have any in sometimes the pharmacy is already
Dr Jameson: At their quota for how many patients, they can
Dr Jameson: Supply because they get a certain limited amount from their distributor and they only divides by so many patients in a month. So
Dr Jameson: Anyway, so sometimes we have some little hiccups. I don't know. Did you have you checked with the pharmacy that they have it or that they're taking patients or
Shane bailey: No, no, but I have, but I have a how I found out about this program is this is how this worked out for me that I have a friend. I know from
Shane bailey: My dealings, and he's doing and he's doing it and he's going to show you from the, from the pharmacy here in town. So
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: So, you know, they
Dr Jameson: Have it. Okay, so there's only, the only question is, if they're maxed out but hopefully not okay. Um, so, so that's important that we wait. And then I think, um, how long have you gone lately, without taking anything
Shane bailey: I usually try to go as long as possible. You know, I've been. I've been doing it. Like I said, I started feeling bad about 10 hours let Mary so
Dr Jameson: If you haven't gotten like a couple days or
Shane bailey: No, no, no, no. But I've gotten I've done you know like I got caught it work. We went out of town unexpectedly, and it was that wasn't fun, but I was almost full 24 hours before I was able to I survived.
Shane bailey: Yeah, by the by the end of 24 hours. I wasn't super it wasn't feeling super hot but you know I was, it wasn't that terrible
Shane bailey: It's usually because I don't really get the worst of it seems like because I have a problem. If you guys fully in doesn't seem like you really get the worst of until about three days three days seems to be the yeah really as bad as it gets.
Dr Jameson: Well, I'm so
Dr Jameson: I I'm
Dr Jameson: I worry a little bit about the you know possibility of fat know and that
Dr Jameson: Kind of makes me worry a little bit more that there might be some in there anyway.
Dr Jameson: So we should probably start at a low
Dr Jameson: lower dose of buprenorphine. Sometimes I just have people just take this dose. This is probably what you're going to need, and both, you know, just go for it. But I think, in your case, I want you to start with smaller pieces and then add every 30 to 60 minutes as long as
Dr Jameson: That's the case, it seems to make you feel worse. I wanted
Dr Jameson: To be as little
Dr Jameson: As possible in there when you first tried
Shane bailey: Just in case.
Dr Jameson: If, if the other meds that we prescribe How are helping you, and you can you feel like you can wait a little longer than the longer you wait, the better. I think
Dr Jameson: So you see what you can muster. I'm not that i i mean i hate to have you. Suffer, suffer. But you also did do it once and even though it wasn't, it wasn't by choice. So, I mean, you have survived it before. Unfortunately it's feels like you're dying right but it
Dr Jameson: Actually is rarely, rarely actually
Dr Jameson: Does cause that so alright so we'll
Dr Jameson: The timing is really the only thing you know the thing. Let me just look real quick. In this we have to me there's a prescription drug monitoring system and
Dr Jameson: When you see that real quick just to make sure there aren't any. I saw something else. This morning, and I put her in there and she had you know her.
Dr Jameson: Marco prescription from every, every month and I said something about oh
Dr Jameson: You know I mentioned it, and then she's like, Oh yeah, I haven't. I said, well, you haven't gone this month. Yes, I want. Oh, I gotta go. And I was like, Well, wait, you can still take Norco if you're on. Oh, I can't. Oh, well, then I don't want to, like, okay.
Dr Jameson: Nevermind. So it was kind of a funny unexpected end to that appointment.
Dr Jameson: Right now is 125 83. Is that right,
Dr Jameson: Yes, oh, what
Dr Jameson: Did they explain to sort of the structure of our pro or does your friend use us or
Shane bailey: Yeah.
Shane bailey: Okay. Oh no, I don't mean I don't know. They use you. But it was going through, was it was I went to the same avenues that he went through. So I imagine is using you guys so
Dr Jameson: Yeah, it's it's Shane SH e Bay and i i'm not nothing's coming up in the system. So I guess that means you haven't had any prescriptions and
Shane bailey: The last couple years. Okay.
Well, that's
Dr Jameson: Okay. Um, and then I don't think I have you been injecting or how have you been using it.
Shane bailey: Well, originally before you know I did enjoy. I haven't been injected a long time.
Shane bailey: Or use smoking.
Dr Jameson: I guess that your wife's ex wife's medical scare probably
Shane bailey: Yeah yeah
Shane bailey: Yeah, it was horrible.
Shane bailey: Yeah. Yeah, that's exactly how she got it to us from
Shane bailey: There they all get it.
Shane bailey: From me or mud, so lots, and lots, and lots, lots of young people that have died from it. Yeah.
Shane bailey: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: And how about hepatitis any anybody had that around you.
Shane bailey: Oh yeah Rami sure I went to jail.
Shane bailey: Everybody in there has
Shane bailey: Okay. But generally, I don't. I know.
Dr Jameson: Your wife your ex wife.
Dr Jameson: Never did either
Dr Jameson: Okay, um, how tall are you,
I'm 511
Dr Jameson: And about almost anything.
Shane bailey: Right now I'm pretty skinny about 160
Dr Jameson: See lost some weight.
Shane bailey: Usually about 190 oh
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so there was something else. And I was gonna
Dr Jameson: Oh, so the way that we work, you have this this meeting, which we've already just about finished and then you'll have an evaluation at some point, probably not. Before you end up in our in a group, but we will schedule you for an initial counselor evaluation.
Dr Jameson: And that at that visit, they will sort of make a recommendation about oh you've had years of counseling, you're good. We can just do a follow up every six months for a little touch base or
Dr Jameson: We think you should we recommend every week or twice a week or twice a month or whatever, they'll, they'll give you a recommendation about how often it seems
Shane bailey: Beneficial that you meet
Dr Jameson: Individually with a counselor. I think we've already
Dr Jameson: Determined that will probably be helpful for you and it is for almost everybody, including I mean counselors and doctors go to counseling do so it's not it's not
Dr Jameson: It's not a unique situation at all. And then as far as follow up with me that happens in this in the context of weekly groups that we we do with it's me and then patients and accounts in a drug and alcohol counselor typically so
Dr Jameson: We
Dr Jameson: You know we do like a quick who needs refills sort of
Dr Jameson: At the beginning, and then I'm there for the whole and I'm listening. And sometimes, sometimes charming and more than I should have probably better. I will do the refill, sort of, it's sort of a combination
Shane bailey: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Visit
Dr Jameson: We start out with
Dr Jameson: Well, sometimes not even a full week at a time. We started with weekly prescription and as you, you know, meet all your
Dr Jameson: Requirements to show up and you know participate. We eventually after a few months will extend that to every two weeks and then
Dr Jameson: Ultimately, as much as a month at a time. If you really
Dr Jameson: made a lot of progress and, you know, kept kept you
Dr Jameson: Kept yourself in line and you're going to do blood work have you already gone to the lab.
Shane bailey: No, no I but I will
Dr Jameson: Like you know about
Shane bailey: It. I gotta get back to work. But our thing. Okay, I'll be able to do it tomorrow. The next day,
Dr Jameson: Perfect. Um, and then after that, we'll do monthly drug screens, which they actually mail you a cup so you don't have to keep going to the lab every month. It's kind of nice.
Dr Jameson: Because we do it right on screen. And it's a cup that has the built in testers, so we can just, you just hold it up when we look
Dr Jameson: So explain that more in detail. There are weekly surveys, they email you where they asked you variety of, you know, how, how are you doing kind of questions I guess then we we just
Dr Jameson: Kind of like track over time and look for trends and they're really into data analytics and stuff like that, which kind of interesting, but it doesn't mean you have to fill out surveys every week, which some people don't enjoy
Dr Jameson: And then, um, I guess the last thing is to figure out what time works best for you as far as group I obviously you work like nine to five, pretty much.
Shane bailey: Yeah, well, yeah, I mean, yeah, I leave, I leave my house around 530 I usually get back about 530 well okay
Dr Jameson: Do you get a lunch hour
Shane bailey: Yeah, well, we sometimes. Sometimes our vegetable. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So because I have two groups on Wednesdays, but ones at 10:30am and ones at noon I don't doesn't sound like that's going to be
Shane bailey: I wouldn't be able to hear
Dr Jameson: And then I have Tuesday evening.
Dr Jameson: I have a five.
Dr Jameson: Or
Shane bailey: 615 613 would be fine.
Dr Jameson: But Tuesday evening.
Dr Jameson: So that would be
Dr Jameson: And then anytime you have any sort of visit or appointment or whatever. You go to the virtual clinic, which is where you started.
Earlier today.
Dr Jameson: They'll check you in and then shoot you. The number for whatever meeting room you, you're going to be in that day, our group meeting changes every week.
Shane bailey: You know, just want people
Dr Jameson: Randomly showing up if they haven't you know you know whatever paid or done whatever they're supposed to do it.
Dr Jameson: So just, you know, we have a couple
Dr Jameson: Guidelines or whatever rules I guess for group. One is that we ask people not to smoke on camera because some people are quitting or have questions don't need to be watching somebody else puffing away.
Dr Jameson: And then we asked you to have headphones or earbuds or something which is more for privacy of your fellow
Dr Jameson: Group roommates.
Dr Jameson: And I see you're in your car and you know
Dr Jameson: Unless I mean I, you know, hypothetically, someone could be sitting next to you anyway. So we just do it as a courtesy and also to cut back on background noises and stuff like that. So other than that. There's not a lot of we just hopefully you're in a quiet place where you can
Dr Jameson: Pay attention for for it's about it goes usually not longer than an hour, sometimes a little bit shorter than that, but approximately an hour.
Dr Jameson: And they asked you to check in. I am throwing a lot of stuff at you, but they asked you to start your check in at least half an hour before the group actually starts. I don't know how much time you spent waiting today in the virtual clinic, but there can be
Shane bailey: 1015 minutes. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Sometimes it can be you know if there's 10 people all checking in, for the same group. And there's two or three of them.
Dr Jameson: You know you can own and somebody didn't do this and I didn't do that all you need, you know, sometimes it's a little time consuming to get everybody squared away so
Dr Jameson: I mean, in your case, you could even like while you're driving home or something you could sign in and just wait on hold and talk to them, you know, and you know, and then have the code, you can do it before half an hour to. I mean, but no less than half an hour. I guess is what I'm saying.
Are you there.
dictate the Risa and TV shows back up.
Dr Jameson: Here to today to discuss her results from last month, which was positive or buprenorphine but also for math.
Dr Jameson: She acknowledges that from time to time, she just loved math, typically with her one of her ex husbands who comes by periodically. He had been staying with them for a couple weeks and offered offered it to her and she states. It's not one of them. He does very regularly and she's not
Dr Jameson: Necessarily it's just go out of our way to go find it. She did not feel like it.
Dr Jameson: Prime's her for wanting to use any other substances.
Dr Jameson: And she's you know willing to cut back or eliminate eliminate that I am in fact she does admit there. She doesn't notify me that there will likely also be math on her system. This coming month
Dr Jameson: Mental Status fiscal normal or UD severe plan patients forthcoming and
Dr Jameson: Appropriate, we discussed the potential risks physically medically of using math and also just the sort of
Dr Jameson: slippery slopes that can that can ensue.
Dr Jameson: Ideally, it would not be used at all.
Dr Jameson: We will
Dr Jameson: Obviously, see this month, but hopefully going forward, there will no longer be positive tests for math in her in her samples.
Dr Jameson: Then we have Shane Bailey.
Dr Jameson: I'll be this phone died or something happened.
Dr Jameson: Who presents today for initial
Dr Jameson: history and physical
Dr Jameson: His opiates.
Dr Jameson: Problem began with prescription payments, after some injuries sustained in a motorcycle accident and some surgeries that ensued.
Dr Jameson: Ultimately, the prescriptions were discontinued and he transitioned to purchasing pills and eventually to heroin for supply as well as cost reasons he has injected in the past but no more recently, he's been smoking it
Dr Jameson: In a period of sobriety. That was
Dr Jameson: Sort of
Dr Jameson: Forced when he was incarcerated over the period of a year he had severe symptoms for about a month and then more
Dr Jameson: Mood and energy level symptoms for probably seven months after stopping. He was released about a year ago and was clean for about four months. But at that time was living with his sister, who is
Dr Jameson: Also an addict and eventually he returned to use. He's currently using about a half a gram a day.
Dr Jameson: Just cut back a little bit from previous
Dr Jameson: Is withdrawal includes
Dr Jameson: Diarrhea
Dr Jameson: anxiety, insomnia, restlessness hot and cold.
Dr Jameson: But he acknowledges that he's has underlying anxiety chronically anyway and feels that that's part of what he's been treating from the beginning.
Dr Jameson: He is
Dr Jameson: Has not been in treatment previously he heard about our program through a friend who's been using Suboxone he has never tried it himself. But he's understood, he's heard some about how how it works and past medical history, and I tried to put that all in there.
Dr Jameson: He does have jumped out childhood trauma, both from an abusive father and also he survived.
Dr Jameson: A fatal car wreck that killed one of his friends when he was 17 they were all trapped in the car for at least an hour before they were rescued.
Dr Jameson: Even relating this episode.
Dr Jameson: Is it creates some significant
Dr Jameson: emotional response.
Dr Jameson: Mental Status tearful at one point relating his
Dr Jameson: Products accident, but otherwise.
Dr Jameson: Normal
Dr Jameson: Maybe a little fidgety
Dr Jameson: physicals normal assessment or UD severe
Dr Jameson: Plan think he's a good candidate for
Dr Jameson: medication assisted therapy. He's certainly got a physical dependency at this point.
Dr Jameson: We discussed the
Dr Jameson: Mechanism of action and the possibility of
Dr Jameson: Specific precipitated withdrawal, particularly given the
Dr Jameson: frequency with which they're spending know in the in the current heroin supply
Dr Jameson: We talked about
Dr Jameson: Timing of first dose and
Dr Jameson: The structure of our program.
Dr Jameson: It's appears to me that he's got some significant anxiety and
Dr Jameson: Probably PTSD and certain he will benefit from
Dr Jameson: Concurrent individual counseling.
Dr Jameson: We can use hydroxide Xen and Clonidine initially to try to help him through the initial phase stages of withdrawal until a table to begin Suboxone
Dr Jameson: I'm going to have them start with the typical induction protocol two milligrams every 30 to 60 minutes
Dr Jameson: Until up to eight milligrams
Dr Jameson: And then up to twice a day. He'll begin group next week and Tuesday.
Dr Jameson: Evening group, he's going to go to the lab tomorrow.
Dr Jameson: And